Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four were perfectly normal, thank you very much. Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four just didn’t hold with such nonsense. Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. Mr. Dursley was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although Mr. Dursley did have a very large mustache. Mr. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as Mr. Dursley spent so much of Mr. Dursley time craning over garden fences, spying on the neighbors. Mr. Dursley had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere. Mr. Dursley had everything Mr. Dursley wanted, but Mr. Dursley also had a secret, and Mr. Dursley greatest fear was that somebody would discover . Mr. Dursley didn’t think Mr. Dursley could bear if anyone found out about the Potters. Mr. Dursley was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but Mr. Dursley hadn’t met for several years; in fact, Mr. Dursley pretended Mr. Dursley didn’t have a sister, because Mr. Dursley sister and Mr. Dursley good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. Mr. Dursley shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the street. Mr. Dursley knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but the Potters had a small son, too had never even seen a small son. a small son was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; the Potters didn’t want Dudley mixing with a child like that. When Mr. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as Mr. Dursley picked out Mr. Dursley most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as Mrs. Dursley wrestled a screaming Dudley into Mr. Dursley high chair. None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window. At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up Mr. Dursleybriefcase, pecked Mr. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing Dudley cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursleyas Mr. Dursley left the house. Mr. Dursley got into Mr. Dursley car and backed out of number four’s drive. It was on the corner of the street that Mr. Dursley noticed the first sign of something peculiar — a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize what Mr. Dursleyhad seen — then Mr. Dursley jerked Mr. Dursley head around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could Mr. Dursley have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, Mr. Dursley watched a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive in Mr. Dursley mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave Mr. Dursley a little shake and put a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive out of Mr. Dursley mind. As Mr. Dursley drove toward town Mr. Dursley thought of nothing except a large order of drills Mr. Dursley was hoping to get that day. But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of Mr. Dursley mind by something else. As Mr. Dursley sat in the usual morning traffic jam, Mr. Dursley couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on young people! Mr. Dursley supposed this was some stupid new fashion. Mr. Dursley drummed Mr. Dursley fingers on the steering wheel and Mr. Dursley eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of They weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older than man was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of man! But then The nerve of him struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some silly stunt — these people were obviously collecting for something ... yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, Mr. Dursley mind back on drills. Mr. Dursley always sat with Mr. Dursley back to the window in Mr. Dursley office on the ninth floor. If Mr. Dursley hadn’t, Mr. Dursley might have found it harder to concentrate on drills that morning. Mr. Dursley didn’t see the owls swooping past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; people pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of people had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. Mr. Dursley yelled at five different people. Mr. Dursley made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. Mr. Dursley was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when Mr. Dursley thought Mr. Dursley’d stretch Mr. Dursley legs and walk across the road to buy Mr. Dursley a bun from the bakery. He’d forgotten all about five different people until Mr. Dursley passed a group of five different people next to the baker’s. Mr. Dursley eyed five different people angrily as Mr. Dursley passed. Mr. Dursley didn’t know why, but five different people made Mr. Dursley uneasy. This bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and Mr. Dursley couldn’t see a single collecting tin. It was on Mr. Dursley way back past five different people, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that Mr. Dursley caught a few words of what five different people were saying. “The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard — ” “ — yes, five different people son, Harry — ” Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded Mr. Dursley. Mr. Dursley looked back at the whisperers as if Mr. Dursley wanted to say something to them, but thought better of the whisperers. Mr. Dursley dashed back across the road, hurried up to Mr. Dursley office, snapped at Mr. Dursley secretary not to disturb Mr. Dursley, seized Mr. Dursley telephone, and had almost finished dialing Mr. Dursley home number when Mr. Dursley changed Mr. Dursley mind. Mr. Dursley put the receiver back down and stroked Mr. Dursley mustache, thinking ... no, Mr. Dursley was being stupid. Potter wasn’t such an unusual name. Potter was sure there were lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, Potter wasn’t even sure Potter nephew was called Harry. Potter’d never even seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point in worrying Mrs. Dursley; Mrs. Dursley always got so upset at any mention of Mrs. Dursley sister. Potter didn’t blame Mrs. Dursley — if Potter’d had a sister like that ... but all the same, those people in cloaks ... Potter found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when Potter left the building at five o’clock, Potter was still so worried that Potter walked straight into someone just outside the door. “Sorry,” someone just outside the door. grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the tiny old man was wearing a violet cloak. the tiny old man didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, the tiny old man face split into a wide smile and the tiny old man said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, “Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You- Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!” And the tiny old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off. Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. Mr. Dursley had been hugged by a complete stranger. Mr. Dursley also thought Mr. Dursley had been called a Muggle, whatever that was. Mr. Dursley was rattled. Mr. Dursley hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping Mr. Dursley was imagining things, which Mr. Dursley had never hoped before, because Mr. Dursley didn’t approve of imagination. As Mr. Dursley pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing Mr. Dursley saw — and it didn’t improve Mr. Dursley mood — was the tabby cat Mr. Dursley’d spotted that morning. the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning was now sitting on Mr. Dursley garden wall. Mr. Dursley was sure the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning was the same one; the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning had the same markings around the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning eyes. “Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly. the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning didn’t move. the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning just gave Mr. Dursley a stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying to pull Mr. Dursley together, Mr. Dursley let Mr. Dursley into the house. Mr. Dursley was still determined not to mention anything to Mr. Dursley wife. Mr. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. Mr. Dursley told Mr. Dursley over dinner all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems with Mr. Dursley daughter and how Dudley had learned a new word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, Dudley went into the living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news: “And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the nation’s owls have suddenly changed the nation’s owls sleeping pattern.” The newscaster allowed The newscaster a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim ?” “Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee’ve had a downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early — it’s not until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight.” Mr. Dursley sat frozen in Mr. Dursley armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain? Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters . . . Mr. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was no good. He’d have to say something to Mr. Dursley. Mr. Dursley cleared Mr. Dursley throat nervously. “Er — Petunia, dear — you haven’t heard from your sister lately, have you?” As Mr. Dursley had expected, Mr. Dursley looked shocked and angry. After all, they normally pretended Mr. Dursley didn’t have a sister. “No,” Mr. Dursley said sharply. “Why?” “Funny stuff on the news,” Mr. Dursley mumbled. “Owls . . . shooting stars . . . and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today ...” “So?” snapped Mr. Dursley. “Well, I just thought ... maybe ... it was something to do with ... you know ... Mr. Dursley crowd.” Mr. Dursley sipped Mr. Dursley tea through pursed lips. Mr. Dursley wondered whether Mr. Dursley dared tell Mr. Dursley Mr. Dursley’d heard “Harry.” Mr. Dursley decided Mr. Dursley didn’t dare. Instead Mr. Dursley said, as casually as Mr. Dursley could, “Owls son — Mr. Dursley’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t Mr. Dursley?” “I suppose so,” said Mr. Dursley stiffly. “What’s Howard again? Howard, isn’t “Harry?” “Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.” “Oh, yes,” said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. “Yes, I quite agree.” his didn’t say another word on the subject as they went upstairs to bed. While Mr. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr. Dursley crept to the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there. The cat was staring down Privet Drive as though The cat were waiting for something. Was Mr. Dursley imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the Potters? If it did ... if it got out that they were related to a pair of — well, Mr. Dursley didn’t think Mr. Dursley could bear it. The Dursleys got into bed. Mr. Dursley fell asleep quickly but Mr. Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in Mr. Dursley mind. Mr. Dursley last, comforting thought before Mr. Dursley fell asleep was that even if the Potters were involved, there was no reason for even if the Potters were involved to come near Mr. Dursley and Mr. Dursley. the Potters knew very well what Mr. Dursley and Petunia thought about even if the Potters were involved and even if the Potters were involved kind. ... Mr. Dursley couldn’t see how Mr. Dursley and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going on — Mr. Dursley yawned and turned over — it couldn’t affect he and Petunia. ... How very wrong Mr. Dursley was. Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. the cat on the wall outside was sitting as still as a statue, the cat on the wall outside eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of Privet Drive. the cat on the wall outside didn’t so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat on the wall outside moved at all. A man appeared on the corner the cat on the wall outside had been watching, appeared so suddenly and silently you’d have thought A man’d just popped out of the ground. the cat on the wall outside’s tail twitched and the cat on the wall outside eyes narrowed. Nothing like A man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. A man was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of A man hair and beard, which were both long enough to tuck into A man belt. A man was wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots. A man blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and A man nose was very long and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. A man’s name was Albus Dumbledore. Albus Dumbledore didn’t seem to realize that Albus Dumbledore had just arrived in a street where everything from Albus Dumbledore name to Albus Dumbledore boots was unwelcome. Albus Dumbledore was busy rummaging in Albus Dumbledore cloak, looking for something. But Albus Dumbledore did seem to realize Albus Dumbledore was being watched, because Albus Dumbledore looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at Albus Dumbledore from the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the cat on the wall outside seemed to amuse Albus Dumbledore. Albus Dumbledore chuckled and muttered, “I should have known.” Albus Dumbledore found what Albus Dumbledore was looking for in Albus Dumbledore inside pocket. It seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. Albus Dumbledore flicked It open, held It up in the air, and clicked It. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. Albus Dumbledore clicked The nearest street lamp again — the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times Albus Dumbledore clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat watching Albus Dumbledore. If anyone looked out of anyone window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, anyone wouldn’t be able to see anything that was happening down on the pavement. Albus Dumbledore slipped the Put- Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where Albus Dumbledore sat down on the wall next to the cat on the wall outside. Albus Dumbledore didn’t look at the cat on the wall outside, but after a moment Albus Dumbledore spoke to the cat on the wall outside. “Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.” Albus Dumbledore turned to smile at the tabby, but the tabby had gone. Instead Albus Dumbledore was smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat on the wall outside had had around the cat on the wall outside eyes. a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes black hair was drawn into a tight bun. Her black hairlooked distinctly ruffled. “How did you know it was me?” a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes asked. “My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.” “You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all day,” said Professor McGonagall. “All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here.” Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily. “Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,” a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes said impatiently. “You’d think they’d be a bit more careful, but no — even the Muggles have noticed something’s going on. It was on they news.” a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes jerked a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes head back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room window. “I heard it. Flocks of owls ... shooting stars. ... Well, Flocks of owls ... shooting stars’re not completely stupid. Flocks of owls ... shooting stars were bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll bet that was Dedalus Diggle. Kent — I’ll bet that was Dedalus Diggle never had much sense.” “You can’t blame them,” said Albus Dumbledore gently. “We’ve had precious little to celebrate for eleven years.” “I know that,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. “But that’s no reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes, swapping rumors.” She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Albus Dumbledore here, as though hoping Albus Dumbledore was going to tell She something, but Albus Dumbledore didn’t, so She went on. “A fine thing it would be if, on the very day You-Know-Who seems to have disappeared at last, even the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose Albus Dumbledore really has gone, Albus Dumbledore?” “It certainly seems so,” said Albus Dumbledore. “We have much to be thankful for. Would you care for a lemon drop?” “A what?” “A lemon drop. We’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather fond of.” “No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though Professor McGonagall didn’t think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say, even if You-Know-Who has gone — ” “My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call a sensible person like yourself by a sensible person like yourself name? All this You- Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven years I have been trying to persuade people to call a sensible person like yourself by a sensible person like yourself proper name: Voldemort .” Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who was unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying You-Know-Who.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Voldemort ’s name.” “I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall, sounding half exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re different. Everyone knows you’re the only one You- Know- oh, all right, Voldemort , was frightened of.” “You flatter me,” said Albus Dumbledore calmly. “Voldemort had powers I will never have.” “Only because you’re too — well — noble to use Only because you’re too.” “It’s lucky It’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey told me Madam Pomfrey liked my new earmuffs.” Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Albus Dumbledore Albus Dumbledore and said, “The owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? About what finally stopped he?” It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point Professor McGonagall was most anxious to discuss, the real reason Professor McGonagall had been waiting on a cold, hard wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had a woman fixed Albus Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as Professor McGonagall did now. It was plain that whatever “everyone” was saying, Professor McGonagall was not going to believe it until Albus Dumbledore told Professor McGonagall it was true. Albus Dumbledore, however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not answer. “What they’re saying,” Professor McGonagall pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow. last night Voldemort went to find the Potters. The rumor is that Lily and James Potter are — are — that Lily and James Potter are —’re — dead.” Albus Dumbledore bowed Albus Dumbledore head. Professor McGonagall gasped. “Lily and James ... I can’t believe it ... I didn’t want to believe it ... Oh, Albus ...” Albus Dumbledore reached out and patted Albus Dumbledore on the shoulder. “I know ... I know ...” Albus Dumbledore said heavily. Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on. “it’s dark. Professor McGonagall’s voice’re saying Albus Dumbledore tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry. But — Albus Dumbledore couldn’t. Albus Dumbledore couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but Professor McGonagall’s voice’re saying that when Albus Dumbledore couldn’t kill Harry Potter, Voldemort’s power somehow broke — and that’s why Albus Dumbledore’s gone.” Albus Dumbledore nodded glumly. “It’s — It’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After all Albus Dumbledore’s done ... all the people Albus Dumbledore’s killed ... Albus Dumbledore couldn’t kill a little boy? It’s just astounding ... of all the things to stop Albus Dumbledore . . . but how in the name of heaven did Harry survive?” “We can only guess,” said Albus Dumbledore. “We may never know.” Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at Professor McGonagall eyes beneath Professor McGonagall spectacles. Albus Dumbledore gave a great sniff as Albus Dumbledore took a golden watch from Albus Dumbledore pocket and examined a golden watch from his pocket. It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have made sense to Albus Dumbledore, though, because Albus Dumbledore put It back in his pocket and said, “Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was Albus Dumbledore who told you I’d be here, by the way?” “Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?” “I’ve come to bring Harry to Harry aunt and uncle. “’re the only family Harry has left now.” “You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?” cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to Professor McGonagall Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. feet and pointing at number four. “Albus Dumbledore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. You couldn’t find two people who are less like us. And two people who are less like us’ve got this son — I saw this son kicking this son mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!” “It’s the best place for him,” said Albus Dumbledore firmly. “his aunt and uncle will be able to explain everything to Albus Dumbledore when Albus Dumbledore’s older. I’ve written his aunt and uncle a letter.” “A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on the wall. “Really, Albus Dumbledore, you think you can explain all this in a letter? These people will never understand Albus Dumbledore! Albus Dumbledore’ll be famous — a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter Day in the future — there will be books written about Harry — every child in our world will know every child in our world name!” “Exactly,” said Albus Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?” Professor McGonagall opened Professor McGonagall mouth, changed Professor McGonagall mind, swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But how is the boy getting here, Albus Dumbledore?” Professor McGonagall eyed Albus Dumbledore cloak suddenly as though Professor McGonagall thought Albus Dumbledore might be hiding Harry underneath it. “Hagrid’s bringing Albus Dumbledore.” “You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?” “I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Albus Dumbledore. “I’m not saying the boy heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t pretend the boy’s not careless. the boy does tend to — what was that?” A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew steadily louder as them looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight; It swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky — and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of them. If a huge motorcycle was huge, a huge motorcycle was nothing to the man sitting astride a huge motorcycle. the man was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times as wide. the man looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild — long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of the man face, the man had hands the size of trash can lids, and the man feet in — long tangles of bushy black hair and beard leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms his was holding a bundle of blankets. “Hagrid,” said Albus Dumbledore, sounding relieved. “At last. And where did you get a huge motorcycle?” “Borrowed a huge motorcycle, Professor Dumbledore, sir,” said a huge motorcycle, climbing carefully off a huge motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black lent a huge motorcycle to me. I’ve got Young Sirius Black, sir.” “No problems, were there?” “No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got sir — houseout all right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. Young Sirius Black fell asleep as we was flyin’ over Bristol.” Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning. “Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall. “Yes,” said Albus Dumbledore. “Hell have that scar forever.” “Couldn’t you do something about it, Albus Dumbledore?” “Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well — give him here, Hagrid — we’d better get this over with.” Albus Dumbledore took Harry in Albus Dumbledore arms and turned toward the Dursleys’ house. “Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked Hagrid. sir bent sir great, shaggy head over Harryand gave sir what must have been a very scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl like a wounded dog. “Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the Muggles!” “S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and burying sir face in Hagrid. “But I c-c- can’t stand Hagrid — Lily an’ James dead — an’ poor little Harry live with Muggles — ” “Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or we’ll be found,” Professor McGonagallwhispered, patting Hagrid gingerly on the arm as Albus Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to the front door. Albus Dumbledore laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked a letterinside Harry’s blankets, and then came back to the other two. For a full minute the three of the other two stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone from Albus Dumbledore’s eyes seemed to have gone out. “Well,” said Albus Dumbledore finally, “that’s that. We’ve no business staying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations.” “Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, “I’d best get this bike away. G ’night, Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.” Wiping Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.” streaming eyes on Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.” jacket sleeve, Hagridswung Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.” onto a huge motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a roar the engine rose into the air and off into the night. “I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,” said Albus Dumbledore, nodding to Professor McGonagall. Professor McGonagall blew Professor McGonagall nose in reply. Albus Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the corner Albus Dumbledore stopped and took out the silver Put- Outer. Albus Dumbledore clicked the silver Put- Outer once, and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and Albus Dumbledore could make out a tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end of the street. Albus Dumbledore could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number four. “Good luck, Harry,” Albus Dumbledore murmured. Albus Dumbledore turned on Albus Dumbledore heel and with a swish of his cloak, Albus Dumbledore was gone. A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside Harry Potter blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on a letterbeside Harry Potter and Harry Potter slept on, not knowing Harry Potter was special, not knowing Harry Potter was famous, not knowing Harry Potter would be woken in a few hours’ time by Mrs. Dursley’s scream as Mrs. Dursley opened the front door to put out the milk bottles, nor that Harry Potter would spend the next few weeks being prodded and pinched by Harry Potter cousin Dudley. ... Harry Potter couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up people glasses and saying in hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!” THE VANASHIG GLASS Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly changed at all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the Dursleys’ front door; The sun crept into their living room, which was almost exactly the same as The sun had been on the night when Mrs. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets — but Mrs. Dursley was no longer a baby, and now Only the photographs on the mantelpiece showed a large blond boy riding a large blond boy first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a computer game with a large blond boy father, being hugged and kissed by a large blond boymother. their living room, which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls held no sign at a large blond boylived in the house, too. Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. Harry Potter Aunt Petunia was awake and His Aunt Petunia was His Aunt Petunia shrill voice that made the first noise of the day. “Up! Get up! Now!” Harry woke with a start. His Aunt Petunia rapped on the door again. “Up!” His Aunt Petunia screeched. Harry heard His Aunt Petunia walking toward the kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. Harry rolled onto Harry back and tried to remember the dream Harry had been having. It had been a good one. There had been a flying motorcycle in it. Harry had a funny feeling Harry’d had the same dream before. His Aunt Petunia was back outside the door . “Are you up yet?” His Aunt Petunia demanded. “Nearly,” said Harry. “Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you dare let the bacon burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.” Harry groaned. “What did you say?” His Aunt Petunia snapped through the door . “Nothing, nothing ...” Dudley’s birthday — how could ” Dudley’s birthday have forgotten? Harry got slowly out of bed and started looking for socks. Harry found a pair under Harry bed and, after pulling a spider off one of a pair, put a pair on. Harrywas used to spiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of a pair, and that was where Harry slept. When Harry was dressed Harry went down the hall into the kitchen. The table was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. The table looked as though Dudley’s had gotten the new computer Dudley’s wanted, not to mention the second television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley’s wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudley’s was very fat and hated exercise — unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was Harry, but Dudley’s couldn’t often catch Dudley’s. Harry didn’t look it, but Harry was very fast. Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry had always been small and skinny for Harry age. Harry looked even smaller and skinnier than Harry really was because all Harry had to wear were old clothes of Dudley’s, and Dudley’s was about four times bigger than Harry was. Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. Harry wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley’s had punched Harry on the nose. The only thing Harry liked about Harry own appearance was a very thin scar on Harry forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning. Harry had had it as long as Harry could remember, and the first question Harry could ever remember asking His Aunt Petunia was how Harry had gotten it. “In the car crash when your parents died,” His Aunt Petunia had said. “And don’t ask questions.” Don’t ask questions — that was the first rule for a quiet life with the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon. “Comb your hair!” Uncle Vernon barked, by way of a morning greeting. About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of Uncle Vernon newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in Harry class put together, but it made no difference, Harry hair simply grew that way — all over the place. Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley’s arrived in the kitchen with his mother. Dudley’s looked a lot like Uncle VernonUncle Vernon. Dudley’s had a large pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly on Dudley’s thick, fat head. His Aunt Petuniaoften said that Dudley’s looked like a baby angel — Harry often said that Dudley’s looked like a pig in a wig. Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult as there wasn’t much room. Dudley’s, meanwhile, was counting Dudley’s presents. Dudley’s face fell. “Thirty-six,” Dudley’s said, looking up at Dudley’s mother and father. “That’s two less than last year.” “Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s here under this big one from Mommy and Daddy.” “All right, thirty-seven then,” said Dudley’s, going red in His face. Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing down Dudley bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley’s turned the table over. His Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because His Aunt Petunia said quickly, “And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?” Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally Dudley said slowly, “So I’ll have thirty ... thirty ...” “Thirty-nine, sweetums,” said His Aunt Petunia. “Oh.” Dudley’s sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. “All right then.” Uncle Vernon chuckled. “Little tyke wants Little tyke money’s worth, just like Little tyke father. ’Atta boy, Dudley’s!” Atta boy, Dudley!” ruffled his money’s hair. At that moment the telephone rang and His Aunt Petuniawent to answer the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley’s unwrap the racing bike, a video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and a VCR. Atta boy, Dudley!” was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when His Aunt Petunia came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried. “Bad news, Uncle Vernon,” His Aunt Petunia said. “his money’s broken his money’s leg. his money’s can’t take Atta boy, Dudley!”.” his money’s jerked his money’s head in Harry’s direction. Dudley’s’s mouth fell open in horror, but his money’s heart gave a leap. Every year on Dudley’s’s birthday, Dudley’s parents took Dudley’s and a friend out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away. Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg made Harry look at photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned. “Now what?” said His Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry Harry as though Harry’d planned this. Harry knew Harry ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg had broken Mrs. Figg leg, but it wasn’t easy when Mrs. Figg reminded Mrs. Figg it would be a whole year before Mrs. Figg had to look at Tibbies, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again. “We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested. “Don’t be silly, Uncle Vernon, Uncle Vernon hates a large blond boy.” the Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though Harry wasn’t there — or rather, as though Harry was something very nasty that couldn’t understand them, like a slug. “What about what’s-her-name, your friend — Yvonne?” “On vacation in Majorca,” snapped His Aunt Petunia. “You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully (he’d be able to watch what Harry wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go on Dudley’s computer) . His Aunt Petunia looked as though His Aunt Petunia’d just swallowed a lemon. “And come back and find The whole house smelled of cabbage in ruins?” His Aunt Petunia snarled. “I won’t blow up The whole house smelled of cabbage,” said Harry, but they weren’t listening. “I suppose we could take Harry to the zoo,” said Aunt Petunia slowly, "... and leave Harry in the car. ...” “That cars new, Harry’s not sitting in it alone. ...” Dudley’s began to cry loudly. In fact, Dudley’s wasn’t really crying — it had been years since Dudley’s’d really cried — but Dudley’s knew that if Dudley’s screwed up Dudley’s face and wailed, Dudley’s would give Dudley’s anything Dudley’s wanted. “Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let Dudley’s spoil your special day!” his mother cried, flinging his mother arms around Dudley’s. “I ... don’t ... want ... him ... t-t-to come!” Dudley’syelled between huge, pretend sobs. “Dudley’s always sp- spoils everything!” Dudley’s shot Harry a nasty grin through the gap in Dudley’s mothers arms. Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord, they’re here!” said His Aunt Petunia frantically — and a moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss, walked in with Dudley’s . Piers was a scrawny boy with a face like a rat. a scrawny boy was usually the one who held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley’shit their. Dudley’s stopped pretending to cry at once. Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe Dudley’s luck, was sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with Piers and Dudley’s, on the way to the zoo for the first time in Dudley’s life. Dudley’s aunt and uncle hadn’t been able to think of anything else to do with Dudley’s, but before His aunt and uncle’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside. “I’m warning you,” Uncle Vernon had said, putting Uncle Vernon large purple face right up close to his money’s, “I’m warning you now, boy — any funny business, anything at all — and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until Christmas.” I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe Uncle Vernon. No one ever did. The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry and The problem was just no good telling the Dursleys Harry didn’t make the Dursleys happen. Once, His Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking as though Harry hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut Harry hair so short Harry was almost bald except for Harry bangs, which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley’s had laughed Dudley’s silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day, where Dudley’s was already laughed at for Dudley’s baggy clothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however, Dudley’s had gotten up to find his hair exactly as his hair had been before His Aunt Petunia had sheared his hair off. His Aunt Petunia had been given a week in His Aunt Petunia cupboard for this, even though His Aunt Petunia had tried to explain that His Aunt Petunia couldn’t explain how it had grown back so quickly. Another time, His Aunt Petunia had been trying to force His Aunt Petunia into a revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown with orange puff balls). The harder His Aunt Petunia tried to pull The over His Aunt Petunia head, the smaller it seemed to become, until finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. His Aunt Petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to His Aunt Petunia great relief, Harry wasn’t punished. On the other hand, Harry’d gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been chasing Harry as usual when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there Harry was sitting on the chimney. the Dursleys had received a very angry letter from his money’s headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all he’d tried to do (as all he’d shouted at Uncle Vernon Uncle Vernon through the locked door of Uncle Vernon cupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the wind must have caught Harry in mid-jump. But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with Dudley’s and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn’t school, Dudley’s cupboard, or Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living room. While Dudley’s drove, Uncle Vernon complained to His Aunt Petunia. Uncle Vernon liked to complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank, and Harrywere just a few of Uncle Vernon favorite subjects. This morning, This morning was motorcycles. "... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” he said, as a motorcycle overtook them. “I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering suddenly. “It was flying.” Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. Uncle Vernon turned right around in Uncle Vernon seat and yelled at Harry, Uncle Vernon face like a gigantic beet with a mustache: “MOTORCYCLES DONT FLY!” Dudley and Piers sniggered. “I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.” But Harry wished Harry hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the Dursleys hated even more than Harry asking questions, it was Harry talking about anything acting in a way the Dursleys shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think Harry might get dangerous ideas. It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. the Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry what Harry wanted before they could hurry Harry away, they bought Harry a cheap lemon ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking It as they watched a gorilla scratching It head who looked remarkably like Dudley’s, except that it wasn’t blond. Harry had the best morning Harry’d had in a long time. Harry was careful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley’s and Piers, who were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on the animals favorite hobby of hitting Harry. the animals ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley’s had a tantrum because Dudley’s knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought Dudley’s another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first. Harry felt, afterward, that Harry should have known it was all too good to last. After lunch another one and Harry went to the reptile house. the reptile house was cool and dark in there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. Dudley’s quickly found the largest snake in the place. the largest snake in the place could have wrapped the largest snake in the place body twice around Uncle Vernon’s car and crushed its body into a trash can — but at the moment its body didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep. Dudley’s stood with Dudley’s nose pressed against the glass, staring at the glistening brown coils. “Make it move,” Dudley’s whined at Dudley’s father. Uncle Vernontapped on the glass, but the largest snake in the place didn’t budge. “Do it again,” Dudley’s ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly with Uncle Vernon knuckles, but the largest snake in the placejust snoozed on. “This is boring,” Dudley’s moaned. Dudley’s shuffled away. Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the largest snake in the place. Harry wouldn’t have been surprised if the largest snake in the place had died of boredom itself — no company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was His Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up; at least Harry got to visit the rest of the house. the largest snake in the place suddenly opened the largest snake in the place beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, the largest snake in the place raised the largest snake in the place head until its beady eyes were on a level with his money’s. the largest snake in the place winked. Harry stared. Then Harry looked quickly around to see if anyone was watching. anyone weren’t. Harry looked back at the largest snake in the place and winked, too. the largest snake in the place jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised its beady eyes to the ceiling. the largest snake in the place gave Harry a look that said quite plainly: “I get that all the time.” “I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though Harry wasn’t sure the largest snake in the place could hear Harry. “It must be really annoying.” the largest snake in the place nodded vigorously. “Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked. the largest snake in the place jabbed the largest snake in the place tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at the glass. Boa Constrictor, Brazil. “Was it nice there?” The boa constrictor jabbed The boa constrictor at a little sign again and Harry read on: This specimen was bred in the zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?” As the largest snake in the place shook the largest snake in the place head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of a deafening shout behind Harry jump. “DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT the largest snake in the placeYOU WONT BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!” Dudley’s came waddling toward them as fast as Dudley’s could. “Out of the way, you,” Dudley’s said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened so fast no one saw how it happened — one second, Piers and Dudley’s were leaning right up close to the glass, the next, Piers and Dudley had leapt back with howls of horror. Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s tank had vanished. the largest snake in the place was uncoiling the largest snake in the place rapidly, slithering out onto the concrete floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and started running for the exits. As the largest snake in the place slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low, hissing voice said, BrazilBrazil, here I come. ... Thanksss, amigo.” The keeper of the reptile house was in shock. “But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?” " The zoo director himself made His Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea while The zoo director himself apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the largest snake in the place hadn’t done anything except snap playfully at Piers and Dudley heels as the largest snake in the place passed, but by the time Piers and Dudley were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car, Dudley’s was telling Piers and Dudley how the largest snake in the place had nearly bitten off Dudley’s leg, while Piers was swearing the largest snake in the place had tried to squeeze Dudley’s to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harrywas talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?” Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting on Harry. Uncle Vernon was so angry Uncle Vernon could hardly speak. Uncle Vernon managed to say, “Go — cupboard — stay — no meals,” before Uncle Vernon collapsed into a chair, and His Aunt Petunia had to run and get Uncle Vernon a large brandy. Harry lay in — cupboard much later, wishing Harry had a watch. Harry didn’t know what time it was and Harry couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet. Until they were, Harry couldn’t risk sneaking to the kitchen for some food. He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as long as Harry could remember, ever since Harry’d been a baby and Harry parents had died in that car crash. Harry couldn’t remember being in the car when his parents had died. Sometimes, when Harry strained Harry memory during long hours in Harry cupboard, Harry came up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on Harry forehead. This, Harry supposed, was that car crash, though Harry couldn’t imagine where all the green light came from. Harry couldn’t remember his parents at all. Harry aunt and uncle never spoke about the Philosophers Stone - J.K. aunt and uncle, and of course Harry was forbidden to ask questions. There were no photographs of the Philosophers Stone - J.K. aunt and uncle in the house. When Harry had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take Harry away, but it had never happened; the Dursleyswere Harry only family. Yet sometimes Harry thought (or maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to know Harry. Very strange strangers they were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to A tiny man in a violet top hat once while out shopping with His Aunt Petunia and Dudley’s. After asking Harry furiously if Harry knew A tiny man in a violet top hat, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily at Harry once on a bus. A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually shaken A bald man in a very long purple coat hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all these people was the way all these people seemed to vanish Harry Harry tried to get a closer look. At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s’s gang hated that odd Harry Potter in Dudley’s baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley’s’s gang. THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor longest-ever punishment. By the time The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor was allowed out of The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor cupboard again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley’s had already broken Dudley’s new video camera, crashed Dudley’s remote control airplane, and, first time out on Dudley’s racing bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as old Mrs. Figg crossed Privet Drive on old Mrs. Figg crutches. Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley’s’s gang, who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Dudley’s was the biggest and stupidest of the lot, Dudley’s was the leader. The rest of Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s’s favorite sport: Harry Hunting. This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house, wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where Harry could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came Harry would be going off to secondary school and, for the first time in Harry life, Harry wouldn’t be with Dudley’s. Dudley’s had been accepted at Uncle Uncle Vernon’s old private school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudley’s thought this was very funny. “They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,” Dudley’s told Harry. “Want to come upstairs and practice?” “No, thanks,” said Harry. “The poor toilet’s never had anything as horrible as your head down it — it might be sick.” Then Dudley’s ran, before Dudley’s could work out what Dudley’s’d said. One day in July, His Aunt Petunia took Dudley’s to London to buy His Aunt Petunia Smeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. Figg’s. old Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. old Mrs. Figg turned out old Mrs. Figg’d broken old Mrs. Figg leg tripping over one of old Mrs. Figg cats, and old Mrs. Figg didn’t seem quite as fond of her cats as before. old Mrs. Figg let Harry watch television and gave Harry a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though old Mrs. Figg’d had ’d for several years. That evening, Dudley’s paraded around the living room for the family in Dudley’s brand-new uniform. Smeltings boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange knickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. Smeltings boys also carried knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be good training for later life. As he looked at Dudley’s in he new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest moment of he life. His Aunt Petunia burst into tears and said His Aunt Petunia couldn’t believe it was His Aunt Petunia Ickle Dudleykins, His Aunt Petunia looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn’t trust the Philosophers Stone - J.K. to speak. the Philosophers Stone - J.K. thought two of the Philosophers Stone - J.K. ribs might already have cracked from trying not to laugh. k k k There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. Harry went to have a look. a large metal tub in the sink was full of what looked like dirty rags swimming in gray water. “What’s this?” the Philosophers Stone - J.K. asked His Aunt Petunia. His Aunt Petunia lips tightened as they always did if the Philosophers Stone - J.K. dared to ask a question. “Your new school uniform,” His Aunt Petunia said. Harry looked in the bowl again. “Oh,” Harry said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.” “Don’t be stupid,” snapped His Aunt Petunia. “I’m dyeing some of Dudley’s old things gray for Harry. It’ll look just like everyone else’s when I’ve finished.” Harry seriously doubted this, but thought this best not to argue. Harry sat down at the table and tried not to think about how Harry was going to look on Harry first day at Stonewall High — like Harry was wearing bits of old elephant skin, probably. Dudley’s and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of the smell from Mrs. Figg’s new uniform. Uncle Vernon opened Uncle Vernon newspaper as usual and Dudley’s banged Uncle Vernon Smelting stick, which Uncle Vernon carried everywhere, on the table. both with wrinkled noses heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat. “Get the mail, Dudley’s,” said Uncle Vernon from behind Uncle Vernon paper. “Make Harry get it.” “Get the mail, Harry.” “Make Dudley’s get it.” “Poke Dudley’s with your Smelting stick, Dudley’s.” Harry dodged your Smelting stick, Dudley and went to get the mail. Three things lay on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon’s sister Marge, who was vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a bill, and — a letter for Harry. Harry picked a bill up and stared at a bill, Harry heart twanging like a giant elastic band. No one, ever, in Harry whole life, had written to Harry. Who would? Harry had no friends, no other relatives — Harry didn’t belong to the library, so Harry’d never even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake: Mr. H. Potter The Cupboard under the Stairs Privet Drive Little Whinging Surrey The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the address was written in emerald- green ink. There was no stamp. Turning The envelope over, hand trembling, Harrysaw a purple wax seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake surrounding a large letter H. “Hurry up, boy!” shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. “What are you doing, checking for letter bombs?” Harry chuckled at Harry own joke. Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at a letter. Harry handed Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to open The envelope. Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over the postcard. “Mrs. Figg’s,” Uncle Vernon informed His Aunt Petunia. “Ate a funny whelk ...” “Dad!” said Dudley’s suddenly. “Dad, Mrs. Figg’s got something!” Harry was on the point of unfolding Harry letter, which was written on the same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of Harry hand by Uncle Vernon. “That’s mine\” said Harry, trying to snatch it back. “Who’d be writing to you?” sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the letter open with one hand and glancing at it. Harry face went from red to green faster than a set of traffic lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seconds it was the grayish white of old porridge. “P-P-Petunia!” P-P-Petunia gasped. Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held it high out of Uncle Vernon reach. His Aunt Petuniatook it curiously and read the first line. For a moment it looked as though His Aunt Petunia might faint. His Aunt Petunia clutched His Aunt Petunia throat and made a choking noise. Uncle VernonUncle Vernon! Oh my goodness — Vernon!” They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry and Dudley’s were still in the room. Dudley’swasn’t used to being ignored. Dudley’s gave Dudley’s father a sharp tap on the head with Dudley’s Smelting stick. “I want to read a letter,” Dudley’s said loudly. “I want to read a letter,” said Harry furiously, “as a letter’s mine.” “Get out, both of you,” croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing the letter back inside a letter envelope. Harry didn’t move. “I WANT MY LETTER!” Harry shouted. “Let me see it!” demanded Dudley’s. “OUT!” roared Uncle Vernon, and Uncle Vernon took both Harryand Dudley’s by the scruffs of both necks and threw both into the hall, slamming the kitchen door behind both. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley’s won, so Harry, Harry glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on Harry stomach to listen at the crack between door and floor. Uncle Vernon,” His Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, “look at the address — how could they possibly know where Harry sleeps? You don’t think they’re watching the house?” “Watching — spying — might be following us,” muttered Uncle Vernon wildly. “But what should us do, Uncle Vernon? Should us write back? Tell they us don’t want — ” Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes pacing up and down the kitchen. “No,” Harry said finally. “No, us’ll ignore it. If they don’t get an answer. ... Yes, that’s best ... us won’t do anything. ...” “But — ” “I’m not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn’t us swear when us took — ” in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense?” That evening when — ” got back from work, Uncle Vernon did something — ” ’d never done before; ’dvisited Harry in — ” cupboard. “Where’s a letter?” said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed through the door. “Who’s writing to me?” “No one. No one was addressed to you by mistake,” said Uncle Vernon shortly. “I have burned No one.” “It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, “It had my cupboard on It.” “SILENCE!” yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell from the ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced He face into a smile, which looked quite painful. “Er — yes, Harry — about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been thinking ... you’re really getting a bit big for a bit . . . we think it might be nice if you moved into Dudley’s’s second bedroom.” “Why?” said Harry. “Don’t ask questions!” snapped Uncle . “Take this stuff upstairs, now.” The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, one for visitors (usually Uncle Vernon’s sister, Marge), one where Dudley’s slept, and one where Dudley’s kept all the toys and things that wouldn’t fit into Dudley’s first bedroom. It only took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything Harry owned from this cupboard to this room. Harry sat down on the bed and stared around Harry. Nearly everything in here was broken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley’s had once driven over the next door neighbor’s dog; in the corner was Dudley’s’s first-ever television set, which Dudley’s’d put Dudley’s foot through when Dudley’s favorite program had been canceled; there was a large birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley’shad swapped at school for a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley’shad sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. Other shelves were the only things in the room that looked as though Other shelves’d never been touched. From downstairs came the sound of Dudley’s bawling at Dudley’s mother, “I don’t want Dudley’s in there ... I need this room ... make Dudley’s get out. ...” Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday Harry’d have given anything to be up here. Today Dudley’s’d rather be back in this cupboard with that letter than up here without ’d . Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley’s was in shock. He’d screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, been sick on purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown Dudley’s tortoise through the greenhouse roof, and Dudley’s still didn’t have Dudley’s room back. Harry was thinking about this time Yesterday and bitterly wishing Harry’d opened the letter in the hall. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each other darkly. When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying to be nice to Harry, made Dudley’s go and get it. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia heard Dudley’s banging things with Dudley’s Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then Dudley’s shouted, “There’s another one! ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, Privet Drive — ’ ” With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from Uncle Vernon seat and ran down the hall, Harry right behind Harry. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley’s to the ground to get the letter from Uncle Vernon, which was made difficult by the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter clutched in Harry hand. “Go to your cupboard — I mean, your bedroom,” Harry wheezed at Harry. “Dudley’s — go — just go.” Harry walked round and round Harry new room. Someone knew Someone had moved out of Someone and they seemed to know Someone hadn’t received Someone . Surely that meant they’d try again? And this time Someone’d make sure they didn’t fail. Someone had a plan. The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next morning. Harry turned it off quickly and dressed silently. silently mustn’t wake the Dursleys. silently stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights. silently was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and get the letters for number four first. silently heart hammered as silently crept across the halltoward the front door — “AAAAARRRGH ! ” Harry leapt into the air; Harry’d trodden on something big and squashy on the doormat — something alive\ Lights clicked on upstairs and to Harry horror Harryrealized that the big, squashy something had been Harry uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making sure that Harry didn’t do exactly what Harry’d been trying to do. Uncle Vernon shouted at Harry for about half an hour and then told Harry to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by the time Harry got back, the mail had arrived, right into Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters addressed in green ink. “I want — ” Harry began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing three letters before Uncle Vernon eyes. Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. Uncle Vernon stayed at home and nailed up the mail slot. “See,” Uncle Vernon explained to His Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails, “if they can’t deliver they they ca’ll just give up.” “I’m not sure that’ll work, Uncle Vernon.” “Oh, these peoples minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they’re not like you and me,” said Uncle Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of fruitcake His Aunt Petunia had just brought -J.K. Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of fruitcake. On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for HarryHarry. As no less than twelve letters couldn’t go through the mail slot no less than twelve letters had been pushed under the door, slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the small window in the downstairs bathroom. Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, Uncle Vernon got out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and back doors so no one could go out. Uncle Vernon hummed “Tiptoe Through the Tulips” as Uncle Vernon worked, and jumped at small noises. On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to Harry found Twenty-four letters to Harry way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two dozen eggs that Twenty-four letters to Harry very confused milkman had handed His Aunt Petunia through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to, His Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in His Aunt Petunia food processor. “Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?” Dudley’s asked Harry in amazement. •k k k On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table looking tired and rather ill, but happy. “No post on Sundays,” Uncle Vernon reminded them cheerfully as Uncle Vernon spread marmalade on Uncle Vernon newspapers, “no damn letters today — ” Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as Something spoke and caught Something sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one — “Out! OUT!Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw Harry into the hall. When His Aunt Petunia and Dudley’s had run out with Aunt Petunia and Dudley arms over Aunt Petunia and Dudley faces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. Aunt Petunia and Dudley could hear Twenty-four letters to Harry still streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor. “That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling great tufts out of Uncle Vernon mustache at the same time. “I want you all back here in five minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack some clothes. No arguments!” Uncle Vernon looked so dangerous with half Uncle Vernon mustache missing that no one dared argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched they way through the boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway. Dudley’s was sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit Dudley’s round the head for holding they up while Dudley’s tried to pack Dudley’s television, VCR, and computer in Dudley’s sports bag. they drove. And they drove. His Aunt Petunia didn’t dare ask where they were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and drive in the opposite direction for a while. “Shake ’em off ... shake ’em off,” Shake ’em off would mutter whenever Shake ’em off did this. didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley’s was howling. He’d never had such a bad day in Dudley’s life. Dudley’s was hungry, Dudley’s’d missed five television programs Dudley’s’d wanted to see, and Dudley’s’d never gone so long without blowing up an alien on Dudley’s computer. Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy- looking hotel on the outskirts of a big city. Dudley’sand Harry shared a room with twin beds and damp, musty sheets. Dudley’s snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and wondering... Dudley and Harry ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the next day. Dudley and Harry had just finished when the owner of a gloomy- looking hotel on the outskirts of a big city came over to Dudley and Harry table. “ ’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I got about an ’undred of these at the front desk.” The woman held up a letter so Dudley and Harry could read the green ink address: Mr. H. Potter Room Railview Hotel Cokeworth Harry made a grab for a letter but Uncle Vernonknocked Uncle Vernon hand out of the way. The woman stared. “I’ll take them,” said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and following The woman from the dining room. •k k k “Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?” His Aunt Petunia suggested timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn’t seem to hear The woman. Exactly what Uncle Vernon was looking for, none of them knew. Uncle Vernon drove them into the middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook Uncle Vernon head, got back in the car, and off them went again. The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of a multilevel parking garage. “Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t Uncle Vernon?” Dudley’s asked His Aunt Petunia dully late that afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside the car, and disappeared. It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dudley’s sniveled. “It’s Monday,” Uncle Vernon told Uncle Vernon mother. “The Great Humberto’s on tonight. I want to stay somewhere with a television.” Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday — and you could usually count on Dudley’s to know the days of the week, because of television — then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh birthday. Of course, Uncle Vernon birthdays were never exactly fun — last year, the Dursleys had given Uncle Vernon a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still, you weren’t eleven every day. Uncle Vernon was back and Uncle Vernon was smiling. Uncle Vernon was also carrying a long, thin package and didn’t answer His Aunt Petunia when His Aunt Petunia asked what Uncle Vernon’d bought. “Found the perfect place!” Uncle Vernon said. “Come on! Everyone out!” It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was certain, there was no television in there. “Storm forecast for tonight!” said Uncle Vernongleefully, clapping Uncle Vernon hands together. “And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us this gentleman’s boat!” A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below them. “I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon, “so all aboard!” It was freezing in his boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like hours their reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding, led the way to the broken-down house. The inside was horrible; The inside smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty. There were only two rooms. Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four bananas. Uncle Vernon’s rations tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and shriveled up. “Could do with some of those letters now, eh?” Uncle Vernon’s rations said cheerfully. Uncle Vernon’s rations was in a very good mood. Obviously Uncle Vernon’s rations thought nobody stood a chance of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed, though the thought didn’t cheer Harry up at all. As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy windows. His Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second room and made up a bed for Dudley’s on the moth-eaten sofa. His Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find the softest bit of floor Harry could and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket. the promised storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Harry couldn’t sleep. Harry shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable, Harry stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s’s snores were drowned by the low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of Dudley’s’s watch, which was dangling over the edge of the moth-eaten sofa on Dudley’s fat wrist, told Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. Harry lay and watched Harry birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now. Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. Harry hoped the roof wasn’t going to fall in, although Harry might be warmer if the roof did. Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters when letters got back that Harry’d be able to steal one somehow. Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny crunching noise? Was the rock crumbling into sea? One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds ... twenty ... ten ... nine — maybe Harry’d wake Dudley’sup, just to annoy Harry — three ... two ... one ... BOOM. The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at the door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in. THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS BOOM. THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS BOOM knocked again. Dudley’s jerked awake. “Where’s the cannon?” Dudley’s said stupidly. There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernoncame skidding into the second room. Uncle Vernon was holding a rifle in Uncle Vernon hands — now they knew what had been in the long, thin package Uncle Vernon had brought with they. “Who’s there?” Uncle Vernon shouted. “I warn you — I’m armed!” There was a pause. Then — SMASH! the door was hit with such force that the door swung clean off the door hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor. A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. A giant of a man face was almost completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard, but you could make out J.K. eyes, glinting like black beetles under all the hair. A giant of a man squeezed J.K. way into the hut, stooping so that J.K. head just brushed the ceiling. J.K. bent down, picked up the door, and fitted the door easily back into the door frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. J.K. turned to look at them all. “Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh? It’s not been an easy journey. ...” J.K. strode over to the sofa where Dudley’s sat frozen with fear. “Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger. Dudley’s squeaked and ran to hide behind Dudley’s mother, who was crouching, terrified, behind Uncle Vernon. “An’ here’s Harry!” said A giant of a man. Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile. “Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said A giant of a man. “Yeh look a lot like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer mom’s eyes.Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise. “I demand that you leave at once, sir!” sir said. “You are breaking and entering!” “Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,” said A giant of a man; A giant of a man reached over the back of the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon’s hands, bent the gun into a knot as easily as if the gun had been made of rubber, and threw the gun into a corner of the second room. Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on. “Anyway Harry,” said A giant of a man, turning Harry back on the Dursleys, “a very happy birthday to Yeh. Got summat fer yeh here — I mighta sat on it at some point, but it’ll taste all right.” From an inside pocket of Yeh black overcoat Yeh pulled a slightly squashed box. Harry opened a slightly squashed box with trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky chocolate cake with Harry written on a slightly squashed box in green icing. Harry looked up at A giant of a man. Harry meant to say thank you, but the words got lost on the way to Harry mouth, and what Harry said instead was, “Who are you?” A giant of a man chuckled. “True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts.” Harry held out an enormous hand and shook Harry’s whole arm. “What about that tea then, eh?” Harry said, rubbing Harry hands together. “I’d not say no ter summat stronger if got , mind.” Harry eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in His eyes and Harry snorted. Harry bent down over the fireplace; they couldn’t see what Harry was doing but when Harry drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire there. a roaring fire filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt the warmth wash over Harry as though Harry’d sunk into a hot bath. A giant of a man sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under A giant of a man weight, and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of A giant of a man coat: a copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that A giant of a man took a swig from before starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while A giant of a man was working, but as A giant of a man slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley’sfidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said sharply, “Don’t touch anything Dudley’s gives you, Dudley’s.” A giant of a man chuckled darkly. “Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ anymore, Dursley, don’ worry.” Dudley’s passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry Dudley’s had never tasted anything so wonderful, but Dudley’s still couldn’t take His eyes off A giant of a man. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, Dudley’s said, “I’m sorry, but I still don’t really know who you are.” A giant of a man took a gulp of tea and wiped Dudley’s mouth with the back of Dudley’s hand. “Call me Hagrid,” Dudley’s said, “everyone does. An’ like I told yeh, I’m Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts — yeh’ll know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.” “Er — no,” said Harry. Hagrid looked shocked. “Sorry,” Harry said quickly. “Sorry?” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back into the shadows. “It’s them as should be sorry! I knew Yeh weren’t gettin’ yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even know abou’ Hogwarts, fer cryin’ out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yer parents learned it all?” “All what?” asked Harry. “ALL WHAT?” Hagrid thundered. “Now wait jus’ one second!” Yeh had leapt to Yeh feet. In Yeh anger Yeh seemed to fill the hut. the Dursleys were cowering against the wall. “Do you mean ter tell me,” Yeh growled at the Dursleys, “that Yeh — Yeh! — knows nothin’ abou’ — about ANYTHING?” Harry thought this was going a bit far. Harry had been to school, after all, and Harry marks weren’t bad. “I know some things,” Harry said. “I can, you know, do math and stuff.” But Hagrid simply waved Harry hand and said, “About our world, I mean. our world. our world. Yer parents’ world.” “What world?” Hagrid looked as if Hagrid was about to explode. “DURSLEY!” Hagrid boomed. Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded like “Mimblewimble.” Hagridstared wildly at Harry. “But Harry must know about yer mom and dad,” Harry said. “I mean, they’re famous. You’re famous.” “What? My — my mom and dad weren’t famous, were my mom and dad?” “Yeh don’ know ... yeh don’ know ...” Hagrid ran Hagridfingers through Yeh hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare. “Yeh don’ know what Yeh are?” Yeh said finally. Uncle Vernon suddenly found Yeh voice. “Stop!” Uncle Vernon commanded. “Stop right there, sir! I forbid you to tell Yeh anything!” A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious look Hagrid now gave A braver man than Vernon Dursley; when Hagrid spoke, A braver man than Vernon Dursley every syllable trembled with rage. “You never told A braver man than Vernon Dursley? Never told A braver man than Vernon Dursley what was in the letter Dumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw Dumbledore leave fer him, Vernon Dursley! An’ you’ve kept fer him from Dumbledore all these years?” “Kept what from me?” said Harry eagerly. “STOP! I FORBID YOU!” yelled Uncle Vernon in panic. Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror. “Ah, go boil yer heads, both of Yeh,” said Hagrid. “Harry — yer a wizard.” There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind could be heard. “I’m a what?” gasped Harry. “A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, “an’ a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve been trained up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else would yeh be? An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time Yeh read yer letter.” Harry stretched out Harry hand at last to take the yellowish envelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea. Harry pulled out the letter and read: HOGWARTS SCHOOL o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE (Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sore., Chf. Warlock, Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards) Dear Mr. Potter, We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all necessary books and equipment. Term begins on September . We await your owl by no later than July . Yours sincerely, Minerva McGonagall, Deputy Headmistress Questions exploded inside It’s head like fireworks and It’s couldn’t decide which to ask first. After a few minutes It’s stammered, “What does it mean, they await your owl?” “Gallopin’ Gorgons, that reminds me,” said Hagrid, clapping a hand to Hagrid forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse, and from yet another pocket inside Hagrid overcoat Hagrid pulled an owl — a real, live, rather ruffled-looking owl — a long quill, and a roll of parchment. With Hagrid tongue between Hagrid teeth Hagrid scribbled a note that Harry could read upside down: Dear Professor Dumbledore, Given Harry Harry letter. Taking Harry to buy Harry things tomorrow. Weather’s horrible. Hope you’re well. Hagrid Hagrid rolled up the note, gave Hagrid Hagrid to the owl, which clamped Hagrid Hagrid in Hagrid Hagrid beak, went to the door, and threw your owl out into the storm. Then Harry came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the telephone. Harry realized his mouth was open and closed his mouthquickly. “Where was I?” said Hagrid Hagrid, but at that moment, Uncle Vernon, still ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight. “Harry’s not going,” Harry said. Hagrid Hagrid grunted. “I’d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop a great Muggle,” a great Muggle said. “A what?” said Harry, interested. “A Muggle,” said Hagrid Hagrid, “A Muggle’s what we call nonmagic folk like them. An’ An’’s your bad luck you grew up in a family o’ the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on.” “we swore when we took him in we’d put a stop to that rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon, “swore we’d stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!” “You knew?” said Harry. “You knew I’m a — a wizard?” “Knew!” shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. “Knew\ Of course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what my dratted sister was? Oh, my dratted sister got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that — that school — and came home every vacation with my dratted sister pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the only one who saw my dratted sister for what my dratted sister was — a freak! But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that, my mother and father were proud of having a witch in the family!” my dratted sister stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed my dratted sister had been wanting to say all this for years. “Then my dratted sister met that Potter at school and my mother and father left and got married and had you, and of course I knew you’d be just the same, just as strange, just as — as — abnormal — and then, if you please, my dratted sister went and got my dratted sister blown up and we got landed with my dratted sister!” Deputy Headmistress Potter at school had gone very white. As soon as he found he voice he said, “Blown up? You told me they died in a car crash!” “CAR CRASH!” roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys scuttled back to they corner. “How could a car crash kill Lily an’ James Potter? How could a car crash kill Lily an’ James Potter’s an outrage! A scandal! Potter at school not knowin’ Potter at school own story when every kid in our world knows Potter at school name!” “But why? What happened?” Harry asked urgently. his anger faded from Hagrid face. Harry looked suddenly anxious. “I never expected this,” Harry said, in a low, worried voice. “I had no idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin’ hold of Yeh, how much yeh didn’t know. Ah, Harry, I don’ know if I’m the right person ter tell Yeh — but someone’s gotta — yeh can’t go off ter Hogwarts not knowin’.” ta threw a dirty look at the Dursleys. “Well, it’s best Yeh know as much as I can tell Yeh — mind, I can’t tell yeh everythin’, it’s a great myst’ry, parts of it. ...” Yeh sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, “It begins, I suppose, with — with a person called — but It’s incredible yeh don’t know — with a person called — name, everyone in our world knows — ” “Who?” “Well — I don’ like sayin’ the name if I can help it. No one does.” “Why not?” “Gulpin’ gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard who went ... bad. As bad as you could go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was ...” Hagrid gulped, but no words came out. “Could you write it down?” Harry suggested. — with a person called — can’t spell it. All right — Voldemort.” Hagridshuddered. “Don’ make me say it again. Anyway, this — this wizard, about twenty years ago now, started lookin’ fer followers. Got ’em, too — some were afraid, some just wanted a bit o’ — with a person called — power, ’cause — with a person called — was gettin’ himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn’t know who ter trust, didn’t dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches . . . terrible things happened. — with a person called — was takin’ over. ’Course, some stood up to — with a person called — — an’ — with a person called — killed ’em. Horribly. One o’ the only safe places left was Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore’s the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of. Didn’t dare try takin’ the school, not jus’ then, anyway. “Now, yer mum an’ dad were as good a witch an’ wizard as I ever knew. Head boy an’ girl at Hogwartsin their day! Suppose the myst’ry is why You-Know- Who never tried to get ’em on You-Know- side before . . . probably knew they were too close ter Reckon Dumbledore ter want anythin’ ter do with the Dark Side. “Maybe — with a person called — thought — with a person called — could persuade ’em ... maybe — with a person called — just wanted ’em outta the way. All anyone knows is, — with a person called — turned up in the village where you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old. — with a person called — came ter yer house an’ — an’ — ” Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew Hagrid nose with a sound like a foghorn. “Sorry,” said. “But it’s that sad — knew yer mum an’ dad, an’ nicer people yeh couldn’t find — anyway “You-Know-Who killed ’em. An’ then — an’ this is the real myst’ry of the thing — tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or maybe Wanted ter just liked killin’ by then. But Wanted ter couldn’t do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That’s what yeh get when a powerful, evil curse touches yeh — took care of yer mum an’ dad an’ yer house, even — but it didn’t work on you, an’ that’s why yer famous, Harry. No one ever lived after No one decided ter kill ’em, no one except you, an’ No one’d killed some o’ the best witches an’ wizards of the age — the McKinnons, the Bones, the Prewetts — an’ you was only a baby, an’ you lived.” Something very painful was going on in Harry’s mind. As Hagrid’s story came to a close, No one saw again the blinding flash of green light, more clearly than No one had ever remembered it before — and No one remembered something else, for the first time in No one life: a high, cold, cruel laugh. Hagrid was watching Hagrid sadly. “Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore’s orders. Brought yeh ter this lot ...” “Load of old tosh,” said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; Harry had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to have got back Harry courage. Uncle Vernon was glaring at Hagrid and Uncle Vernon fists were clenched. “Now, you listen here, boy,” Uncle Vernon snarled, “I accept there’s something strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn’t have cured — and as for all this about your parents, well, your parents were weirdos, no denying it, and the world’s better off without your parents in my opinion — asked for all your parents got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types — just what I expected, always knew your parents’d come to a sticky end — ” But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink umbrella from inside Hagrid coat. Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a sword, Uncle Vernon said, “I’m warning you, Dursley — I’m warning you — one more word ...” In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant, Uncle Vernon’s courage failed again; Uncle Vernon’s flattened Uncle Vernon’s against the wall and fell silent. “That’s better,” said Hagrid, breathing heavily and sitting back down on the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor. Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them. “But what happened to Vol-, sorry — I mean, You- Know-Who?” “Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night Harry tried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That’s the biggest myst’ry, see ... Harry was gettin’ more an’ more powerful — why’d ’d go? “Some say ’d died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if ’d had enough human left in ’d to die. Some say ’d’s still out there, bidin’ ’d time, like, but I don’ believe it. People who was on ’d side came back ter Potter at school and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. ours. Some of ’em came outta kinda trances. Don’ reckon Some of ’em could’ve done if Don was cornin’ back. “Most of us reckon Donsomewhere but lost Don powers. Too weak to carry on. ’Cause somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was somethin’ goin’ on that night Don hadn’t counted on — / dunno what it was, no one does — but somethin’ about you stumped Don, all right.” Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in Hagrid eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could Him possibly be? He’d spent Him life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon; if Him was really a wizard, why hadn’t they been turned into warty toads every time they’d tried to lock Him in Him cupboard? If Him’d once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always been able to kick Him around like a football? Hagrid,” Dudley said quietly, “I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t think I can be a wizard.” To Dudley surprise, Hagrid chuckled. “Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scared or angry?” Harry looked into the fire. Now Harry came to think about it . . . every odd thing that had ever made Harry aunt and uncle furious with Harry had happened when Harry, Harry, had been upset or angry ... chased by Dudley’s gang, Harry had somehow found Harry out of he, Harry, reach . . . dreading going to school with that ridiculous haircut, Harry’d managed to make it grow back . . . and the very last time Dudley had hit Harry, hadn’t Harry got Harry revenge, without even realizing Harry was doing it? Hadn’t Harry set a boa constrictor on Harry? Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively beaming at Harry. “See?” said Hagrid. “Harry Potter, not a wizard — you wait, you’ll be right famous at Hogwarts.” But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a fight. “Haven’t I told you Uncle Vernon’s not going?” Uncle Vernon hissed. “Uncle Vernon’s going to Stonewall High and Uncle Vernon’ll be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters and Uncle Vernon needs all sorts of rubbish — spell books and wands and — ” “If Uncle Vernon wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop Uncle Vernon,” growled Hagrid. “Stop Lily an’ James PotterHe’s son goin’ Hogwarts! Yer mad. Hogwarts name’s been down ever since Hogwarts was born. Hogwarts’s off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and Hogwarts won’t know Hogwarts. Hogwarts’ll be with youngsters of Hogwarts own sort, fer a change, an’ Hogwarts’ll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Albus Dumbled — ” “I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!” yelled Uncle Vernon. But Hogwarts had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized Hogwarts umbrella and whirled his umbrella over Hogwarts head, “Hogwarts — ” Hogwarts thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE — IN — FRONT — OF — ME!” DUMBLEDORE brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at — there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a firecracker, a sharp squeal, and the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot with Dudley hands clasped over Dudley fat bottom, howling in pain. When Dudley turned Dudley back on them, Harry saw a curly pig’s tail poking through a hole in Harry trousers. Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the other room, Uncle Vernon cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed the door behind Aunt Petunia and Dudley. Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked Hagrid beard. “Shouldn’ta lost me temper,” “Shouldn’ta said ruefully, “but “Shouldn’ta didn’t work anyway. Meant ter turn Hagrid into a pig, but I suppose Hagrid was so much like a pig anyway there wasn’t much left ter do.” Hagrid cast a sideways look at Harry under Hagrid bushy eyebrows. “Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts,” Hagrid said. “I’m — er — not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin’. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’ stuff — one o’ the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job — ” “Why aren’t you supposed to do magic?” asked Harry. “Oh, well — I was at Hogwarts Hogwarts but I — er — got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an’ everything. But DUMBLEDORE let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man, Dumbledore.” “Why were you expelled?” “It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,” said Hagrid loudly. “Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an’ that.” took off and threw his coat to Harry. “You can kip under that,” said. “Don’ mind if it wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in one o’ the pockets.” Harry Harry woke early the next morning. Although Harrycould tell it was daylight, Harry kept his eyes shut tight. “It was a dream,” Harry told Harry firmly. “I dreamed a giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. When I open his eyes I’ll be at home in my cupboard.” There was suddenly a loud tapping noise. And there’s Aunt Petunia knocking on the door, Harrythought, Harry heart sinking. But Harry still didn’t open his eyes. It had been such a good dream. Tap. Tap. Tap“All right,” Harry mumbled, “I’m getting up.” Harry sat up and Hagrid ’s heavy coat fell off Harry. The hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid ’s was asleep on the collapsed sofa, and there was an owl rapping Hagrid ’s claw on the window, a newspaper held in Hagrid ’s beak. Harry scrambled to Harry feet, so happy Harry felt as though a large balloon was swelling inside Harry. Harry went straight to the window and jerked the window open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid, who didn’t wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to attack Hagrid ’s coat. “Don’t do that.” Harry tried to wave The owl out of the way, but The owlsnapped The owl fiercely at Harry and carried on savaging Hagrid ’s coat. Hagrid ’s!” said Harry loudly. “There’s an owl — ” “Pay There’s an owl — ” ,” Hagrid ’s grunted into the collapsed sofa. “What?” “Harry wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. Look in the pockets.” Hagrid ’s ’s coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets — bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags ... finally, Harrypulled out a handful of strange-looking coins. “Give Harry five Knuts,” said Hagrid ’s sleepily. “Knuts?” “The little bronze ones.” Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and The owlheld out Harry leg so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to the money. Then Harry flew off through the open window. Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched. “Best be off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an’ buy all yer stuff fer school.” Harry was turning over five little bronze coins and looking at five little bronze coins. Harry had just thought of something that made Harry feel as though the happy balloon inside Harry had got a puncture. “Urn — Hagrid?” “Mm?” said Hagrid, who was pulling on Harry huge boots. “I haven’t got any money — and you heard Uncle Vernon last night ... Uncle Vernon won’t pay for me to go and learn magic.” “Don’t worry about that,” said Hagrid, standing up and scratching his head. “D’yeh think yer parents didn’t leave Hagrid anything?” “But if their house was destroyed — ” “their didntheir keep their gold in their house, boy! Nah, first stop fer us is Gringotts. “Wizards. Have a sausage, their’re not bad cold — an’ I wouldn’ say no teh a bit o’ yer birthday cake, neither.” “Wizards have banks?” “Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins.” Harry dropped the bit of sausage Harry was holding. “Goblins?” “Yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob mad ter, I’ll tell yeh that. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the safest place in the world fer anything Hagrid want ter keep safe — ’cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o’ fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway Fer Dumbledore. Hogwarts business.” Hagrid drew Hagrid up proudly. “Hagrid usually gets me ter do important stuff fer Hagrid. Fetchin’ you — gettin’ things from — knows Hagrid can trust me, see. “Got everythin’? Come on, then.” Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock. The sky was quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. The boat Uncle Vernon had hired was still there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. “How did you get here?” Harry asked, looking around for another boat. “Flew,” said Hagrid. “Flew?” “Yeah — but we’ll go back in this. Not s’pposed ter use magic now I’ve got ter .” They settled down in The boat Uncle Vernon had hired, Harry still staring at Hagrid, trying to imagine Harry flying. “Seems a shame ter row, though,” said Hagrid, giving Harry another of Harry sideways looks. “If I was ter — er — speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin’ it at Hogwarts?” “Of course not,” said Harry, eager to see more magic. Hagrid pulled out his umbrella again, tapped Hagrid twice on the side of The boat Uncle Vernon had hired, and they sped off toward land. “Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?” Harry asked. “Spells — enchantments,” said Hagrid, unfolding Hagrid newspaper as Hagrid spoke. “They say there’s dragons guardin’ the high-security vaults. And then yeh gotta find yer way Gringotts is hundreds of miles under London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh’d die of hunger tryin’ ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat.” Harry sat and thought about this while Hagrid read Harry newspaper, the Daily Prophet Harry had learned from Uncle Vernon that people liked to be left alone while people did this, but it was very difficult, Harry’d never had so many questions in Harry life. “Ministry o’ Magic messin’ things up as usual,” Hagridmuttered, turning the page. “There’s a Ministry of Magic?” Harry asked, before Harry could stop Harry. “ ’Course,” said Hagrid. “They wanted DUMBLEDORE fer Minister, o’ course, but Dumbledore fer ’d never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudge got the job. Bungler if ever there was one. So Dumbledore fer pelts DUMBLEDORE with owls every morning, askin’ fer advice.” “But what does a Ministry of Magic Ministry of Magic Magic do?” “Well, their main job is to keep their main job from the Muggles that there’s still witches an’ wizards up an’ down the country.” “Why?” “Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone ’d be wantin’ magic solutions to Blimey, Harry, everyone ’d problems. Nah, we’re best left alone.” At this moment The boat Uncle Vernon had hired bumped gently into the harbor wall. Hagrid folded up Hagrid newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the street. Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked through the little town to the station. Harry couldn’t blame they. Not only was Hagrid twice as tall as anyone else, Harry kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, “See that, Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?” “Hagrid,” said Harry, panting a bit as Harry ran to keep up, “did you say there are dragons at Gringotts anyway Fer Dumbledore?” “Well, so they say,” said Hagrid. “Crikey, I’d like a dragon.” “You’d like one?” “Wanted one ever since I was a kid — here we go.” They had reached the station. There was a train to London in five minutes’ time. Hagrid, who didn’t understand “Muggle money,” as Muggle called it, gave the bills to Harry so Muggle could buy Hagrid, who didn’t tickets. People stared more than ever on a train to London in five minutes’ time. Hagridtook up two seats and sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent. “Still got yer letter, Harry?” Hagrid asked as Hagrid counted stitches. Harry took the parchment envelope out of Harry pocket. “Good,” said Hagrid. “There’s a list there of everything yeh need.” Harry unfolded a second piece of paper Harry hadn’t noticed the night before, and read: HOGWARTS SCHOOL o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY UNIFORM First-year students will require: . Three sets of plain work robes (black) . One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear . One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar) . One winter cloak (black, silver fastenings) Please note that all pupils’ clothes should carry name tags COURSE BOOKS All students should have a copy of each of the following: The Standard Book of Spells (Grade ) by Miranda Goshawk A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling A Beginners’ Guide to Transfiguration by Emeric Switch One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble OTHER EQUIPMENT wand cauldron (pewter, standard size ) set glass or crystal phials telescope set brass scales Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICKS “Can we buy all this in London?” Harry wondered aloud. “If yeh know where to go,” said Hagrid. Harry had never been to London before. Although Hagrid seemed to know where Harry was going, Harry was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary way. Harry got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground, and complained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow. “I don’t know how the Muggles manage without magic,” Harry said as they climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with shops. Hagrid was so huge that Hagrid parted the crowd easily; Harry Harry had to do was keep close behind Hagrid. Harry passed book shops and music stores, hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if could sell you a magic wand. This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them? Were there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks? Might this not all be some huge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up? If Harry hadn’t known that the Dursleys had no sense of humor, Harry hadmight have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything Hagrid had told Harry so far was unbelievable, Harry couldn’t help trusting Harry. “This is it,” said Hagrid, coming to a halt, “the Leaky Cauldron. the Leaky Cauldron’s a famous place.” the Leaky Cauldron was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. If Hagrid hadn’t pointed Hagrid hadn’t out, Harry wouldn’t have noticed Hagrid hadn’t was there. The people hurrying by didn’t glance at Hagrid hadn’t . The people hurryingeyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the record shop on the other as if Their eyes couldn’t see the Leaky Cauldron at all. In fact, Harry had the most peculiar feeling that only Harry and Hagrid could see it. Before Harry could mention this, Hagrid had steered Harry inside. For a famous place, Hagrid was very dark and shabby. A few old women were sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. One of A few old women was smoking a long pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. The low buzz of chatter stopped when walked in. Everyone seemed to know Hagrid; waved and smiled at Hagrid, and the bartender reached for a glass, saying, “The usual, Hagrid?” “Can’t, Tom, I’m on Hogwarts business,” said Hagrid, clapping Hagrid great hand on Harry’s shoulder and making Harry’s knees buckle. “Good Lord,” said the bartender, peering at Harry, “is this — can this be — ?” The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent. “Bless my soul,” whispered the bartender, “HarryPotter ... what an honor.” Harry hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Harry Harry and seized Harry hand, tears in Harry eyes. “Welcome back, Harry Potter ..., welcome back.” Harry didn’t know what to say. Everyone was looking at Harry. The old woman with a long pipe was puffing on The old woman with the pipe without realizing The old woman with the pipe had gone out. Hagrid was beaming. Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment, Harry found Harry shaking hands with everyone in The Leaky Cauldron. “Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can’t believe I’m meeting you at last.” “So proud, Harry Potter ..., I’m just so proud.” “Always wanted to shake your hand — I’m all of a flutter.” “Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can’t tell you, Diggle’s the name, Dedalus Diggle.” “I’ve seen you before!” said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle’s top hat fell off in Harry excitement. “You bowed to me once in a shop.” “Harry remembers!” cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around at everyone. “Did you hear that? Harry remembers me!” Harry shook hands again and again — Doris Crockford kept coming back for more. A pale young man made A pale young man way forward, very nervously. One of A pale young man eyes was twitching. “Professor Quirrell!” said Hagrid. “Harry, Professor Quirrell will be one of your teachers at Hogwarts.” “P-P-Potter,” stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry’s hand, “c-can’t t-tell you how p-pleased I am to meet you.” “What sort of magic do you teach, “Professor Quirrell?” “D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts,” muttered “Professor Quirrell, as though “Professor Quirrell’d rather not think about he’d. “N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?” “Professor Quirrell laughed nervously. “You’ll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I’ve g-got to p-pick up a new b- book on vampires, m-myself.” “Professor Quirrell looked terrified at the very thought. But the others wouldn’t let “Professor Quirrell keep Harry to “Professor Quirrell. It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. At last, Hagrid managed to make Hagrid heard over the babble. “Must get on — lots ter buy. Come on, Harry.” Doris Crockford shook Harry’s hand one last time, and Hagrid led them through the bar and out into a small, walled courtyard, where there was nothing but a trash can and a few weeds. Hagrid grinned at Harry. “Told yeh, didn’t I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind you, Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind ’s usually tremblin’.” “Is Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind always that nervous?” “Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind was fine while Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind was studyin’ outta books but then Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind took a year off ter get some firsthand experience. ... They say Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind met vampires in the Black Forest, and there was a nasty bit o’ trouble with a hag — never been the same since. Scared of the students, scared of Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind own subject — now, where’s me umbrella?” Vampires? Hags? Harry’s head was swimming. Hagrid, meanwhile, was counting bricks in the wall above the trash can. “Three up ... two across ...” Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind muttered. “Right, stand back, Harry.” Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind tapped the wall above the trash can three times with the point of Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind umbrella. The brick Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind had touched quivered — The brick he had touched wriggled — in the middle, a small hole appeared — The brick he had touched grew wider and wider — a second later they were facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. “Welcome,” said Hagrid, “to Diagon Alley.” Even Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind grinned at Harry’s amazement. they stepped through an archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. Harry looked quickly over Harry shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly back into solid wall. The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop. Cauldrons — All Sizes — Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver — Self-Stirring — Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them. “Yeah, you’ll be needin’ one,” said Hagrid, “but we gotta get yer money first.” Harry wished Harry had about eight more eyes. Harry turned Harry head in every direction as they walked up the street, trying to look at everything at once: the shops, the things outside they, the people doing they shopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary was shaking A plump woman outside an Apothecary as they passed, saying, “Dragon liver, sixteen Sickles an ounce, they’re mad.” A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign saying Eeylops Owl Emporium — Tawny, Screech, Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several boys of about Harry age had Several boys of about Harry’s age noses pressed against a window with broomsticks in it. “Look,” Harry heard one of them say, “the new Nimbus Two Thousand — fastest ever — ” There were shops selling robes, shops selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had never seen before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels’ eyes, tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles, globes of the moon. ... “Gringotts,” said Hagrid. had reached a snowy white building that towered over the other little shops. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors, wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold, was — “Yeah, that’s a goblin,” said Hagrid quietly as walked up the white stone steps toward Hagrid. The goblin was about a head shorter than Harry. The goblin had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harrynoticed, very long fingers and feet. The goblin bowed as walked inside. Now were facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon : Enter, stranger, but take heed Of what awaits the sin of greed, For those who take, but do not earn, Must pay most dearly in those who take turn. So if you seek beneath our floors A treasure that was never yours, Thief, you have been warned, beware Of finding more than treasure there. “Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob yeh’d,” said Hagrid. A pair of goblins bowed A pair of goblins through its burnished bronze doorsand A pair of goblins were in a vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. There were too many doors to count leading off a vast marble hall, and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of more goblins. Hagrid and Harrymade for a long counter. “Morning,” said Hagrid to a free goblin. “our’ve come ter take some money outta Mr. Harry Potter’s safe.” “You have Mr. Harry Potter’s key, sir?” “Got it here somewhere,” said Hagrid, and Hagrid started emptying Hagrid pockets onto a long counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblins book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled The goblin nose. Harrywatched The goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing coals. “Got it,” said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key. The goblin looked at The goblin closely. “That seems to be in order.” “An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,” said Hagrid importantly, throwing out Hagrid chest. “It’s about the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen.” The goblin read a letter here from Professor Dumbledore carefully. “Very well,” The goblin said, handing The goblin back to Hagrid, “I will have someone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!” Griphook!” was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog biscuits back inside his pockets, Hagrid and Harry followed Griphook!” toward one of the doors leading off a vast marble hall. “What’s the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?” Harry asked. “Can’t tell yeh that,” said Hagrid mysteriously. “Very secret. Hogwarts business. Professor Dumbledoretrusted me. More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.” Griphook!” held the door open for he and Harry. Harry, who had expected more marble, was surprised. Harry, who had expected more marble were in a narrow stone passageway lit with flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were little railway tracks on the floor. Griphook!” whistled and a small cart came hurtling up little railway tracks on the floor toward Harry, who had expected more marble. Harry, who had expected more marble climbed in Hagrid with some difficulty — and were off. At first Harry, who had expected more marble just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Harry tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left, but it was impossible. a small cart seemed to know a small cart own way, because Griphook!” wasn’t steering. Harry’s eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but Harry kept them wide open. Once, Harry thought Harry saw a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late — them plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor. “I never know,” Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of a small cart, “what’s the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?” “Stalagmite’s got an ‘m’ in Stalagmite’s,” said Hagrid. “An’ don’ ask me questions just now, I think I’m gonna be sick.” did look very green, and when a small cart stopped at last beside a small door in the passage wall, Hagridgot out and had to lean against the passage wall to stop Hagrid knees from trembling. Griphook!” unlocked a small door in the passage wall. A lot of green smoke came billowing out, and as A lot of green smoke cleared, Harry gasped. Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columns of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts. “All yours,” smiled Hagrid. Stalagmite’s — it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn’t have known about this or they’d have had The Dursleys from ’dfaster than blinking. How often had they complained how much Harry cost they to keep? And all the time there had been a small fortune belonging to Harry, buried deep under London. Hagrid helped Harry pile some of Hagrid into a bag. “The gold ones are Galleons,” Harry explained. “Seventeen silver Sickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Sickle, it’s easy enough. Right, that should be enough fer a couple o’ terms, we’ll keep the rest safe for Harry.” Harry turned to Griphook!” . “Vault seven hundred and thirteen now, please, and can we go more slowly?” “One speed only,” said Griphook!” . They were going even deeper now and gathering speed. The air became colder and colder as They hurtled round tight corners. They went rattling over an underground ravine, and Harry leaned over the side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Hagrid groaned and pulled Harry back by the scruff of Harry neck. Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole. “Stand back,” said Griphook!” importantly. Griphook!” stroked the door gently with one of Griphook!” long fingers and the door simply melted away. “If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, anyone but a Gringotts goblin’d be sucked through the door and trapped in there,” said Griphook!” . “How often do you check to see if anyone’s inside?” Harry asked. “About once every ten years,” said Griphook!” with a rather nasty grin. Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top security vault, Harry was sure, and Harry leaned forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulous jewels at the very least — but at first Harry thought it was empty. Then Harry noticed a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor. Hagrid picked a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor up and tucked a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor deep inside Hagrid coat. Harry longed to know what a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor was, but knew better than to ask. “Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don’t talk to me on the way back, it’s best if I keep me mouth shut,” said Hagrid. One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside Gringotts. Harry didn’t know where to run first now that Harry had a bag full of money. Harry didn’t have to know how many Galleons there were to a pound to know that Harry was holding more money than he’d had in Harry whole life — more money than even Dudley had ever had. “Might as well get yer uniform,” said Hagrid, nodding toward Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Occasions. “Listen, Harry, would yeh mind if I slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them Gringotts carts.” Harry did still look a bit sick, so Harryentered Madam Malkin’s shop alone, feeling nervous. Madam Malkin’s was a squat, smiling witch dressed all in mauve. “Hogwarts, dear?” Madam Malkin’s said, when Harry started to speak. “Got the lot here — another young man being fitted up just now, in fact.” In the back of the shop, a boy with a pale, pointed face was standing on a footstool while a second witch pinned up a second witch long black robes. Madam Malkin’s stood Harry on a stool next to Madam Malkin’s, slipped a long robe over Madam Malkin’s head, and began to pin a long robe to the right length. “Hello,” said the boy, “Hogwarts, too?” “Yes,” said Harry. “— Father buying my books and mother’s up the street looking at wands,” said a boy with a pale. a boy with a pale had a bored, drawling voice. “Then I’m going to drag a bored, drawling voice off to look at racing brooms. I don’t see why first years can’t have a bored, drawling voice own. I think I’ll bully father into getting me one and I’ll smuggle in somehow.” Harry was strongly reminded of even Dudley. “Have you got your own broom?” a boy with a pale went on. “No,” said Harry. “Play Quidditch at all?” “No,” Harry said again, wondering what on earth Quidditch could be. “ I do — Father says it’s a crime if I’m not picked to play for my House, and I must say, I agree. Know my House my House you be in yet?” “No,” said Harry, feeling more stupid by the minute. “Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but I know I’ll be in Slytherin, all our family have been — imagine being in Hufflepuff, I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” “Mmm,” said Harry, wishing Harry could say something a bit more interesting. “I say, look at that man!” said a boy with a pale suddenly, nodding toward the front window. Hagrid was standing there, grinning at Harry and pointing at two large ice creams to show Hagrid couldn’t come in. “Hagrid,” said Harry, pleased to know something a boy with a pale didn’t. “Hagrid works at Hogwarts.” “Oh,” said a boy with a pale, “I’ve heard of a boy with a pale. a boy with a pale’s a sort of servant, isn’t a boy with a pale?” “a boy with a pale’s the gamekeeper,” said Harry. a boy with a pale was liking a boy with a pale less and less every second. “Yes, exactly. I heard a boy with a pale’s a sort of savage — lives in a hut on the school grounds and every now and then a boy with a pale gets drunk, tries to do magic, and ends up setting fire to a boy with a pale bed.” “I think Hagrid’s brilliant,” said Harry coldly. “Do you?” said the boy, with a slight sneer. “Why is he with you? Where are your parents?” “your parents’re dead,” said Harry shortly. he didn’t feel much like going into the matter with a boy with a pale. “Oh, sorry,” said the other, not sounding sorry at all. “But your parents were our kind, weren’t your parents?” “your parents were a witch and wizard, if that’s what you mean.” “I really don’t think your parents should let the other sort in, do you? your parents’re just not the same, your parents’ve never been brought up to know our ways. Some of your parents have never even heard of Hogwarts until Some of them get the letter, imagine. I think Some of them should keep it in the old wizarding families. What’s your surname, anyway?” But before Harry could answer, Madam Malkin’s said, “That’s you done, my dear,” and Harry, not sorry for an excuse to stop talking to the boy, hopped down from the footstool. “Well, I’ll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,” said the boy. Harry was rather quiet as Harry ate the ice cream Hagridhad bought Harry (chocolate and raspberry with chopped nuts). “What’s up?” said Hagrid. “Nothing,” Harry lied. They stopped to buy parchment and quills. Harry cheered up a bit when Harry found a bottle of ink that changed color as you wrote. When They had left the shop, Harry said, “Hagrid, whatStalagmite’s Quidditch?” “Blimey, Harry, I keep forgettin’ how little Harry know — not knowin’ about Quidditch!” “Don’t make me feel worse,” said Harry. Harry told Hagrid about the pale boy in Madam Malkin’s. “ — and Harry said people from Muggle families shouldn’t even be allowed in — ” “Yer not from a Muggle family. If Yer not from a Muggle family’d known who yeh were — Yer not from a Muggle familygrown up knowin’ yer name if Yer not from a Muggle family parents are wizardin’ folk. You saw what everyone in the Leaky Cauldron was like when the Leaky Cauldron saw yeh. Anyway, what does Yer not from a Muggle family know about the Leaky Cauldron, some o’ the best I ever saw were the only ones with magic in ’em in a long line o’ Muggles — look at yer mum! Look what she had fer a sister!” “So what is Quidditch?” “It’s our sport. Wizard sport. It’s like — like soccer in the Muggle world — everyone follows Quidditch — played up in the air on broomsticks and there’s four balls — sorta hard ter explain the rules.” “And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?” “School Houses. There’s four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are a lot o’ duffers, but — ” “I bet I’m in Hufflepuff,” said Harry gloomily. “Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin,” said Hagrid darkly. “There’s not a single witch or wizard who went bad who wasn’t in Slytherin. You-Know-Who was one.” “Vol-, sorry — You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?” “Years an’ years ago,” said Hagrid. bought Harry’s school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as paving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with nothing in postage stamps at all. Even Dudley, who never read anything, would have been wild to get his hands on some of these. Hagrid almost had to drag Harry away from Curses and Counter-curses (Bewitch Your Friends and Befuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs, Tongue-Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian. “I was trying to find out how to curse even Dudley.” “I’m not sayin’ that’s not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in the Muggle world except in very special circumstances,” said Hagrid. “An’ anyway, yeh couldn’ work any of them curses yet, yeh’ll need a lot more study before Harry get ter that level.” Hagrid wouldn’t let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron, either (“It says pewter on yer list”), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited the Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. While Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for a supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry, Harry examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule, glittery- black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop). Outside the Apothecary, Hagrid checked Harry’s list again. “Just yer wand left — oh yeah, an’ I still haven’t got yeh a birthday present.” Harry felt Harry go red. “You don’t have to — ” “I know I don’t have to. Tell Harry what, I’ll get yer animal. Not a toad, toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh’d be laughed at — an’ I don’ like cats, cats make me sneeze. I’ll get yer an owl. All the kids want owls, All the kids’re dead useful, carry yer mail an’ everythin’.” Twenty minutes later, All the kids left Eeylops Owl Emporium, which had been dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-bright eyes. Harry now carried a large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep with Harry head under Harry wing. Harry couldn’t stop stammering Harry thanks, sounding just like Professor Quirrell. “Don’ mention it,” said Hagrid gruffly. “Don’ expect you’ve had a lotta presents from them Dursleys. Just Ollivanders left now — only place fer wands, Ollivanders, and Harry gotta have the best wand.” A magic wand . . . this was what Harry had been really looking forward to. The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold letters over the door read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands since b. c. A single wand lay on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window. A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of The last shop as A tinkling bell stepped inside. It was a tiny place, empty except for a single, spindly chair that Hagridsat on to wait. Harry felt strangely as though Harry had entered a very strict library; Harry swallowed a lot of new questions that had just occurred to Harry and looked instead at the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. For some reason, the back of Harry neck prickled. The very dust and silence in here seemed to tingle with some secret magic. “Good afternoon,” said a soft voice. Harry jumped. Hagrid must have jumped, too, because there was a loud crunching noise and Hagrid got quickly off the spindly chair. An old man was standing before them, Hagrid wide, pale eyes shining like moons through the gloom of The last shop. “Hello,” said Harry awkwardly. “Ah yes,” said Harry. “Yes, yes. I thought I’d be seeing you soon. Harry Potter.” It wasn’t a question. “You have your mother’s eyes. It seems only yesterday your mother was in here your mother, buying your mother first wand. Ten and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. her first wand.” Mr. Ollivander moved closer to Harry. Harry wished Mr. Ollivander would blink. Those silvery eyes were a bit creepy. “Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. Eleven inches. Pliable. A little more power and excellent for transfiguration. Well, I say Your fatherfavored it — it’s really the wand that chooses the wizard, of course.” Mr. Ollivander had come so close that the Philosophers Stone - J.K. and Harrywere almost nose to nose. Harry could see Harry reflected in those misty eyes. “And that’s where ...” Mr. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead with a long, white finger. “I’m sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,” Mr. Ollivander said softly. “Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands ... well, if I’d known what that wand was going out into the world to do. ...” Yew shook Yew head and then, to Harry’s relief, spotted Hagrid. “Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again. ... Oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?” “It was, sir, yes,” said Hagrid. “Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it in half when you got expelled?” said Mr. Ollivander, suddenly stern. “Er — yes, they did, yes,” said Hagrid, shuffling Hagrid feet. “I’ve still got the pieces, though,” Hagrid added brightly. “But you don’t use the pieces?” said Mr. Ollivander. “Oh, no, sir,” said Hagrid quickly. Harry noticed Harry gripped Harry pink umbrella very tightly as Harry spoke. “Hmmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a piercing look. “Well, now — Harry Potter. Let me see.” pulled a long tape measure with silver markings out of pocket. “Which is your wand arm?” “Er — well, I’m right-handed,” said Harry. “Hold out your wand arm. That’s your wand arm.” measured Harryfrom shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round . As measured, said, “Every Ollivander wand has a core of a powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. We use unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands are the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite the same. And of course, you will never get such good results with another wizard’s wand.” Harry suddenly realized that the tape measure, which was measuring between Harry nostrils, was doing this on this own. Mr. Ollivander was flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes. “That will do,” Mr. Ollivander said, and a long tape measurecrumpled into a heap on the floor. “Right then, Mr. Potter. Try this one. Beech-wood and dragon heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. Just take it and give it a wave.” Harry took wand and (feeling foolish) waved wand around a bit, but Mr. Ollivander snatched wand out of Mr. Ollivander hand almost at once. “Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite whippy. Try — ” Harry tried — but Harry had hardly raised wandwhen wand, too, was snatched back by Mr. Ollivander. “No, no — here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches, springy. Go on, go on, try it out.” Harry tried. And tried. Harry had no idea what Mr. Ollivander was waiting for. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the spindly chair, but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled from the shelves, the happier Mr. Ollivander seemed to become. “Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, well find the perfect match here somewhere — I wonder, now — yes, why not — unusual combination — holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple.” Harry took wand. Harry felt a sudden warmth in Harry fingers. Harry raised wand above Harry head, brought wand swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework, throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagridwhooped and clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, “Oh, bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well ... how curious ... how very curious ...” Mr. Ollivander put Harry’s wand back into Harry’s box and wrapped its box in brown paper, still muttering, “Curious . . . curious “Sorry,” said Harry, “but what’s curious?” Mr. Ollivander fixed Harry with Mr. Ollivander pale stare. “I remember every wand I’ve ever sold, Mr. Potter. Every single wand. It so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another feather — just one other. It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for wand when wand brother — why, its brother gave you that scar.” Harry swallowed. “Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how these things happen. wand chooses the wizard, remember. ... I think we must expect great things from you, Mr. Potter. ... After all, He-Who- Must-Not-Be-Named did great things — terrible, yes, but great.” Harry shivered. Harry wasn’t sure Harry liked Mr. Ollivander too much. Harry paid seven gold Galleons for Harry wand, and Mr. Ollivander bowed seven gold Galleons from Mr. Ollivander shop. The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harryand Hagrid made Harry and Hagrid way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall, back through the Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn’t speak at all as they walked down the road; Harry didn’t even notice how much people were gawking at they on the Underground, laden as much people were with all much people funny- shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Harry’s lap. Up another escalator, out into Paddington station; Harry only realized where much people were when Hagrid tapped Harry on the shoulder. “Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,” Harry said. Harry bought Harry a hamburger and much people sat down on plastic seats to eat much people. Harry kept looking around. Everything looked so strange, somehow. “You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet,” said Hagrid. Harry wasn’t sure Harry could explain. He’d just had the best birthday of Harry life — and yet — Harry chewed a hamburger, trying to find the words. “Everyone thinks I’m special,” Harry said at last. “All those people in the Leaky Cauldron, Professor Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander ... but I don’t know anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I’m famous and I can’t even remember what I’m famous for. I don’t know what happened when Vol-, sorry — I mean, the night my parents died.” Hagrid leaned across the table. Behind the wild beard and eyebrows Hagrid wore a very kind smile. “Don’ you worry, Harry. You’ll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the beginning at Hogwarts, you’ll be just fine. Just be yerself. I know it’s hard. Yeh’ve been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. But yeh’ll have a great time at Hogwarts — I did — still do, ’smatter of fact.” Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take Harry back to the Dursleys, then handed Harry an envelope. “Yer ticket fer Hogwarts,” Yer ticket fer Hogwarts said. “First o’ September — King’s Cross — King’s Cross it’s all on yer ticket. Any problems with the Dursleys, send me a letter with yer owl, she’ll know where to find me. ... See yeh soon, Harry.” the train that would take him back to the Dursleys pulled out of Paddington station. Harry wanted to watch Hagrid until Harry was out of sight; Harry rose in Harry seat and pressed Harry nose against the window, but Harry blinked and Hagrid had gone. THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS Harry’s last month with the Dursleys wasn’t fun. True, Dudley was now so scared of Harry Dudley wouldn’t stay in the same room, while Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon didn’t shut Harry in Harry cupboard, force Harry to do anything, or shout at Harry — in fact, they didn’t speak to Harry at all. Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Harry in it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, this did become a bit depressing after a while. Harry kept to the same room, with Harry new owl for company. Harry had decided to call her Hedwig, a name Harry had found in A History of Magic. Harry school books were very interesting. Harry lay on Harry bed reading late into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as Hedwig pleased. It was lucky that Aunt Petunia didn’t come in to vacuum anymore, because Hedwig kept bringing back dead mice. Every night before Harry went to sleep, Harry ticked off another day on the piece of paper Harry had pinned to the wall, counting down to September the first. On the last day of August Harry thought Harry’d better speak to Harry aunt and uncle about getting to King’s Cross station the next day, so Harry went down to the living room where his aunt and uncle were watching a quiz show on television. Harry cleared Harry throat to let them know Harry was there, and Dudley screamed and ran from the living room where they were watching a quiz show on television. “Er — Uncle Vernon?” Uncle Vernon grunted to show ” Uncle Vernon was listening. “Er — Uncle Vernon — I need to be at King’s Cross tomorrow to — ” to go to Hogwarts.” Uncle Vernon grunted again. “Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?” Grunt. Harry supposed that meant yes. “Thank you.” Harry was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon actually spoke. “Funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train. Magic carpets all got punctures, have Magic carpets all?” Harry didn’t say anything. “Where is this school, anyway?” “I don’t know,” said Harry, realizing this for the first time. Harry pulled Hagrid had given Harry out of Harry pocket. “I just take the train from platform nine and three- quarters at eleven o’clock,” Harry read. his aunt and uncle stared. “Platform what?” “Nine and three-quarters.” “Don’t talk rubbish,” said ” Uncle Vernon. “There is no platform nine and three-quarters.” “It’s on my ticket.” “Barking,” said ” Uncle Vernon, “howling mad, the lot of them. You see. You just wait. All right, we’ll take you to King’s Cross. we’re going up to London tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn’t bother.” “Why are you going to London?” Harry asked, trying to keep things friendly. “Taking Dudley to the hospital,” growled ” Uncle Vernon. “Got to have that ruddy tail removed before Dudley goes to Smeltings.” Harry woke at five o’clock the next morning and was too excited and nervous to go back to sleep. Harry got up and pulled on Harry jeans because Harry didn’t want to walk into Paddington station in Harry wizard’s robes — Harry’d change on the train. Harry checked Harry Hogwarts list yet again to make sure Harry had everything Harry needed, saw that Hedwig was shut safely in Hedwig cage, and then paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up. Two hours later, Harry’s huge, heavy trunk had been loaded into the Dursleys’ car, Aunt Petunia had talked Dudley into sitting next to Harry, and they had set off. They reached King’s Cross at half past ten. Uncle Vernon dumped Harry’s trunk onto a cart and wheeled Harry’s trunk into the station for Harry’s. Harry thought this was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead, facing the platforms with a nasty grin on Harry face. “Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform ten. Your platform should be somewhere in the middle, but Your platform don’t seem to have built Your platform yet, do Your platform?” Harry was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic number nine over one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one next to it, and in the middle, nothing at all. “Have a good term,” said Uncle Vernon with an even nastier smile. Uncle Vernon left without another word. Harryturned and saw the Dursleys drive away. All three of them were laughing. Harry’s mouth went rather dry. What on earth was Harry going to do? Harry was starting to attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He’d have to ask someone. Harry stopped a passing guard, but didn’t dare mention platform nine and three-quarters. a passing guard had never heard of Hogwarts and when Harry couldn’t even tell Harry what part of the country it was in, Harry started to get annoyed, as though Harry was being stupid on purpose. Getting desperate, Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o’clock, but a passing guard said there wasn’t one. In the end a passing guard strode away, muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying hard not to panic. According to the large clock over the arrivals board, Harry had ten minutes left to get on the train to Hogwarts and Harry had no idea how to do it; Harry was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk Harry could hardly lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl. Hagrid must have forgotten to tell Harry something you had to do, like tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. Harry wondered if Harry should get out Harry wand and start tapping the ticket inspector’s stand between platforms nine and ten. At that moment a group of people passed just behind Harry and Harry caught a few words of what a group of people were saying. “ — packed with Muggles, of course — ” Harry swung round. The speaker was a plump woman who was talking to four boys, all with flaming red hair. Each of a plump woman who was talking to four boys, all with flaming red hair was pushing a trunk like Harry’s in front of Harry — and they had an owl. Heart hammering, Harry pushed Harry cart after they. they stopped and so did Harry, just near enough to hear what they were saying. “Now, what’s the platform number?” said the boys’ mother. “Nine and three-quarters!” piped a small girl, also red- headed, who was holding a small girl hand, “a small girl, can’t I go “You’re not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right, Percy, you go first.” What looked like the oldest boy marched toward platforms nine and ten. Harry watched, careful not to blink in case Harry missed case — but just as the oldest boyreached the dividing barrier between the two platforms, a large crowd of tourists came swarming in front of Harry and by the time the last backpack had cleared away, the oldest boy had vanished. “Fred, you next,” the plump woman said. “I’m FredFred, I’m George,” said the oldest boy. “Honestly, woman, you call yourself our mother? Can’t you tell I’m George?” “Sorry, I’m George, dear.” “Only joking, I am Fred,” said the oldest boy, and off the oldest boy went. the oldest boy twin called after the oldest boy to hurry up, and the oldest boy must have done so, because a second later, the oldest boy had gone — but how had the oldest boy done His twin? Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrier — the third brother was almost there — and then, quite suddenly, the third brother wasn’t anywhere. There was nothing else for it. “Excuse me,” Harry said to the plump woman. “Hello, dear,” the plump woman said. “First time at Hogwarts? Ron’s new, too.” the plump woman pointed at the last and youngest of the plump woman sons. Ron’s was tall, thin, and gangling, with freckles, big hands and feet, and a long nose. “Yes,” said Harry. “The thing is — The thing is, I don’t know how to — ” “How to get onto the platform?” the plump woman said kindly, and Harry nodded. “Not to worry,” the plump woman said. “All you have to do is walk straight at the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don’t stop and don’t be scared you’ll crash into it, that’s very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if you’re nervous. Go on, go now before Ron.” “Er — okay,” said Harry. Ron pushed Ron trolley around and stared at the barrier. It looked very solid. Ron started to walk toward It. People jostled Ron on People way to platforms nine and ten. Harry walked more quickly. Harry was going to smash right into the barrier and then Harry’d be in trouble — leaning forward on Harry cart, Ron broke into a heavy run — the barrier was coming nearer and nearer — Harry wouldn’t be able to stop — his cart was out of control — Ron was a foot away — Ron closed Ron eyes ready for the crash — It didn’t come ... Ron kept on running ... Ron opened his eyes. A scarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven o’clock. Harry looked behind Harry and saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had been, with the words Platform Nine and Three- Quarters on it. Harry had done it. Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chattering crowd, while cats of every color wound here and there between the chattering crowd legs. Owls hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble and the scraping of heavy trunks. The first few carriages were already packed with students, some hanging out of the window to talk to The first few carriages families, some fighting over seats. Harry pushed Harry cart off down a platform packed with people in search of an empty seat. Harry passed a round-faced boy who was saying, “Gran, I’ve lost my toad again.” “Oh, Neville,” Harry heard the old woman sigh. A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd. “Give us a look, Lee, go on.” A boy with dreadlocks lifted the lid of a box in A boy with dreadlocks arms, and the people around A boy with dreadlocks shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long, hairy leg. Harry pressed on through a small crowd until Harry found an empty compartment near the end of the train. Harry put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and heave Harry trunk toward the train door. Harry tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice Harry dropped it painfully on Harry foot. “Want a hand?” It was one of the red-haired twins Harry’d followed through the barrier. “Yes, please,” Harry panted. “Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!” With the red-haired twins ’ help, Harry’s trunk was at last tucked away in a corner of an empty compartment near the end of the train. “Thanks,” said Harry, pushing Harry sweaty hair out of Harry eyes. “What’s that?” said one of the red-haired twins suddenly, pointing at Harry’s lightning scar. “Blimey,” said the other twin. “Are you — ?” “Harry is,” said the other twin. “Aren’t you?” Harry added to Harry. “What?” said Harry. “ Harry Potter,” chorused the red-haired twins . “Oh, Harry,” said Harry. “I mean, yes, I am.” The two boys gawked at Harry, and Harry felt Harry turning red. Then, to Harry relief, a voice came floating in through the train’s open door. “Fred? I’m George? Are you there?” “Coming, a small girl.” With a last look at Harry, the red-haired twins hopped off the train. Harry sat down next to the window where, half hidden, Harry could watch the red-haired family on the platform and hear what the red-haired twins were saying. the red-haired twins mother had just taken out Their mother handkerchief. “Ron, you’ve got something on your nose.” The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but The youngest boy grabbed The youngest boy and began rubbing the end of The youngest boy nose. “Mom — geroff.” The youngest boy wriggled free. “Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on The youngest boy nosie?” said one of the red-haired twins . “Shut up,” said Ron. “Where’s Percy?” said Their mother. “The youngest boy’s coming now.” The youngest boy came striding into sight. The youngest boy had already changed into The youngest boy billowing black Hogwarts robes, and Harry noticed a shiny red and gold badge on Harry chest with the letter P on it. “Can’t stay long, Their mother,” The youngest boy said. “I’m up front, the prefects have got two compartments to the prefects — ” “Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?” said one of the red-haired twins , with an air of great surprise. “You should have said something, we had no idea.” “Hang on, I think I remember The youngest boy saying something about it,” said the other twin. “Once — ” “Or twice — ” “A minute — ” “All summer — ” “Oh, shut up,” said Percy the Prefect. “How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?” said one of the red-haired twins . “Because Percy’s a prefect,” said Their mother fondly. “All right, dear, well, have a good term — send me an owl when you get there.” She kissed Percy on the cheek and Percy left. Then She turned to the red-haired twins . “Now, you two — this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl telling me you’ve — you’ve blown up a toilet or — ” “Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet.” “Great idea though, thanks, Mom.” “It’s not funny. And look after Ron.” “Don’t worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with We.” “Shut up,” said Ron again. Ron was almost as tall as the red-haired twins already and Ron nose was still pink where Their mother had rubbed his nose. “Hey, a small girl, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?” Harry leaned back quickly so they couldn’t see Harry looking. “You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station? Know who black-haired boy who was near us in is?” “Who?” “ Harry Potted” Harry heard the little girl’s voice. “Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see black-haired boy who was near us in , Mom, oh please. ...” “You’ve already seen black-haired boy who was near us in , Ginny, and the poor boy isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is black-haired boy who was near us in really, Fred? How do you know?” “Asked black-haired boy who was near us in . Saw black-haired boy who was near us in scar. It’s really there — like lightning.” “Poor dear — no wonder he was alone, I wondered. he was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the platform.” “Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know-Who looks like?” Their mother suddenly became very stern. “I forbid you to ask he, Fred. No, don’t you dare. As though he needs reminding of that on he first day at school.” “All right, keep your hair on.” A whistle sounded. “Hurry up!” Their mother said, and the three boys clambered onto the train. their leaned out of the window for her to kiss their good-bye, and their younger sister began to cry. “Don’t, Ginny, we’ll send you loads of owls.” “Well send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.” “ Georg e\” “Only joking, a small girl.” the train began to move. Harry saw the boys’ mother waving and their sister, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with the train until the train gathered too much speed, then the boys’ mother fell back and waved. Harry watched the girl and the boys’ mother mother disappear as the train rounded the corner. Houses flashed past the window. Harry felt a great leap of excitement. Harry didn’t know what Harry was going to — but He had to be better than what Harry was leaving behind. The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheaded boy came in. “Anyone sitting there?” the youngest redheaded boy asked, pointing at a Hogwarts toilet seat. “Everywhere else is full.” Harry shook Harry head and the youngest redheaded boy sat down. Harry glanced at Harry and then looked quickly out of the window, pretending the youngest redheaded boy hadn’t looked. Harry saw Harry still had a black mark on Harry nose. “Hey, Ron.” The twins were back. “Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train — Lee Jordan’s got a giant tarantula down there.” “Right,” mumbled Ron. Harry,” said the other twin, “did we introduce we? Fred and George Weasley. And this is Ron, we brother. See you later, then.” “Bye,” said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the compartment door shut behind The twins. “Are you really Harry Potter?” Ron blurted out. Harry nodded. “Oh — well, I thought it might be one of Fred and Lee Jordan’s jokes,” said Ron. “And have you really got — you know ...” Ron pointed at Harry’s forehead. Harry pulled back Harry bangs to show the lightning scar. Ron stared. “So that’s where You-Know-Who — ?” “Yes,” said Harry, “but I can’t remember it.” “Nothing?” said Ron eagerly. “Well — I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else.” “Wow,” said Ron. Ron sat and stared at Harry for a few moments, then, as though Ron had suddenly realized what Ron was doing, Ron looked quickly out of the window again. “Are all your family wizards?” asked Harry, who found Ron just as interesting as Ron found Ron. “Er — yes, I think so,” said Ron. “I think Mom’s got a second cousin who’s an accountant, but we never talk about an accountant.” “So you must know loads of magic already.” The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding families the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked about. “I heard you went to live with Muggles,” said Ron. “What are they like?” “Horrible — well, not all of they. My aunt and uncle and cousin are, though. Wish I’d had three wizard brothers.” “Five,” said Ron. For some reason, Ron was looking gloomy. “I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. You could say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Bill and Charlie have already left — Bill was head boy and Charlie was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy’s a prefect. Fred and I’m George mess around a lot, but Fred and George still get really good marks and everyone thinks Fred and George’re really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others, but if I do, as well’s no big deal, because Everyone did no big deal first. You never get anything new, either, with five brothers. I’ve got Bill’s old robes, Now Percy’s a prefect old wand, and Percy’s old rat.” Ron reached inside Ron jacket and pulled out a fat gray rat, which was asleep. “Ron name’s Scabbers and Ron’s useless, Ron hardly ever wakes up. Percy got an owl from my dad for being made a prefect, but they couldn’t aff — I mean, I got Scabbers instead.” Ron’s ears went pink. Percy seemed to think Percy’d said too much, because Percy went back to staring out of the window. Harry didn’t think there was anything wrong with not being able to afford an owl. After all, Harry’d never had any money in Harry life until a month ago, and Harry told Ron so, all about having to wear Dudley’s old clothes and never getting proper birthday presents. This seemed to cheer Ron up. "... and until Hagrid told me, I didn’t know anything about being a wizard or about my parents or Voldemort — ” Ron gasped. “What?” said Harry. “ You said You-Know-Who’s name\” said Ron, sounding both shocked and impressed. “I’d have thought you, of all people — ” “I’m not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name,” said Harry, “I just never knew you shouldn’t. See what I mean? I’ve got loads to learn. ... I bet,” he added, voicing for the first time something that had been worrying a lot lately, “I bet I’m the worst in the class.” “You won’t be. ThereNow Percy’s a prefect loads of people who come from Muggle families and There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families learn quick enough.” While There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families had been talking, the train had carried There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families out of London. Now There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families were speeding past fields full of cows and sheep. There’s loads of people who come from Muggle families were quiet for a time, watching the fields and lanes flick past. Around half past twelve there was a great clattering outside in the corridor and a smiling, dimpled woman slid back a smiling, dimpled woman door and said, “Anything off the cart, dears?” Harry, who hadn’t had any breakfast, leapt to Harry feet, but Ron’s ears went pink again and Ron muttered that Ron’d brought sandwiches. Harry went out into the corridor. Harry had never had any money for candy with the Dursleys, and now that Harry had pockets rattling with gold and silver Harry was ready to buy Mars Bars as Harry could carry — but a smiling, dimpled woman didn’t have Mars Bars. What a smiling, dimpled woman did have were Now Percy’s a prefect Every Flavor Beans, Bertie Bott’s Best Blowing Gum, Chocolate Frogs, Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, Licorice Wands, and a number of other strange things Harry had never seen in Harry life. Not wanting to miss anything, Harry got some of everything and paid a smiling, dimpled woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts. Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the compartment and tipped the compartment onto an empty seat. “Hungry, are you?” “Starving,” said Harry, taking a large bite out of a pumpkin pasty. Ron had taken out a lumpy package and a lumpy packagea lumpy package. There were four sandwiches inside. Ron pulled one of four sandwiches apart and said, “She always forgets I don’t like corned beef.” “Swap you for one of these,” said Harry, holding up a pasty. “Go on — ” “You don’t want this, this’s all dry,” said Ron. “She hasn’t got much time,” Ron added quickly, “you know, with five of us.” “Go on, have a pasty,” said Harry, who had never had anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. it was a nice feeling, sitting there with Ron, eating their way through all Harry’s pasties, cakes, and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten). “What are these?” Harry asked Ron, holding up a pack of Chocolate Frogs. “They’re not really frogs, are They?” Harry was starting to feel that nothing would surprise Harry. “No,” said Ron. “But see what the card is. I’m missing Agrippa.” “What?” “Oh, of course, you wouldn’t know — Chocolate Frogs have cards inside Frogs , you know, to collect — famous witches and wizards. I’ve got about five hundred, but I haven’t got Agrippa or Ptolemy.” Harry unwrapped Harry Chocolate Frog and picked up the card. his Chocolate Frog showed a man’s face. a man’s face wore half-moon glasses, had a long, crooked nose, and flowing silver hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture was the name Albus Dumbledore. “So this is Albus Dumbledore!” said Harry. “Don’t tell me you’d never heard of Albus Dumbledore!” said Ron. “Can I have a frog? I might get — thanks Harry turned over the card and read: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times, Albus Dumbledore is particularly famous for Albus Dumbledore defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in , for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and dragon work on alchemy with dragon partner, Nicolas Flamel. Albus Dumbledore enjoys chamber music and ten pin bowling. Harry turned the card back over and saw, to Harry astonishment, that Albus Dumbledore ’s face had disappeared. “Albus Dumbledoregone!” “Well, you can’t expect Albus Dumbledore to hang around all day,” said Ron. “Albus Dumbledore’ll be back. No, I’ve got Morgana again and I’ve got about six of Morgana ... do you want it? You can start collecting.” Ron’s eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs waiting to be unwrapped. “Help yourself,” said Harry. “But in, you know, the Muggle world, people just stay put in photos.” “Do they? What, they don’t move at all?” Ron sounded amazed. “Weird).” Harry stared as Albus Dumbledore sidled back into the picture on Harry card and gave Harry a small smile. Ronwas more interested in eating the frogs than looking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Harrycouldn’t keep Ron’s eyes off the Famous Witches. Soon Harry had not only Dumbledore and Morgana, but Hengist of Woodcraft, Alberic Grunnion, Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin. Ron finally tore Ron’s eyes away from the druidess Cliodna, who was scratching her nose, to open a bag of Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans. “You want to be careful with those,” Ron warned Harry. “When they say every flavor, they mean every flavor — you know, you get all the ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and marmalade, but then you can get spinach and liver and tripe. George reckons George had a booger-flavored one once.” Ron picked up a green bean, looked at a green bean carefully, and bit into a corner. “Bleaaargh — see? Sprouts.” Sprouts had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. Harry got toast, coconut, baked bean, strawberry, curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron wouldn’t touch, which turned out to be pepper. The countryside now flying past the window was becoming wilder. The neat fields had gone. Now there were woods, twisting rivers, and dark green hills. There was a knock on the door of their compartment and the round-faced boy Harry had passed on platform nine and three-quarters came in. looked tearful. “Sorry,” said, “but have you seen a toad at all?” When they shook they heads, wailed, “I’ve lost ! keeps getting away from !” “Hell turn up,” said Harry. “Yes,” said miserably. “Well, if you see ...” left. “Don’t know why ’s so bothered,” said Ron. “If I’d brought a toad I’d lose I’d brought a toad as quick as I could. Mind you, I brought Scabbers, so I can’t talk.” The rat was still snoozing on Ron’s lap. “ might have died and you wouldn’t know the difference,” said Ron in disgust. “I tried to turn yellow yesterday to make more interesting, but the spell didn’t work. I’ll show you, look ...” rummaged around in trunk and pulled out a very battered-looking wand. a very battered-looking wand was chipped in places and something white was glinting at the end. “Unicorn hairNow Percy’s a prefect nearly poking out. Anyway — ” had just raised a very battered-looking wand when the compartment door slid open again. The toadless boy was back, but this time The toadless boy had a girl with The toadless boy. a girl was already wearing a girl new Hogwarts robes. “Has anyone seen a toad? Now Percy’s a prefect lost one,” a girl said. a girl had a bossy sort of voice, lots of bushy brown hair, and rather large front teeth. “We’ve already told Now Percy’s a prefect We haven’t seen it,” said Ron, but a girl wasn’t listening, a girl was looking at a very battered-looking wand in Now Percy’s a prefect hand. “Oh, are you doing magic? LetNow Percy’s a prefect see it, then.” a girl sat down. Ron looked taken aback. “Er — all right.” Ron cleared Ron throat. “ Sunshine , daisies, butter mellow, Turn this stupid, fat rat yellow.” Ron waved a very battered-looking wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers stayed gray and fast asleep. “Are you sure that’s a real spell?” said a girl. “Well, it’s not very good, is it? I’ve tried a few simple spells just for practice and itNow Percy’s a prefect worked for me. Nobody in my familyNow Percy’s a prefect magic at all, it was ever such a surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of course, I mean, my letter’s the very best school of witchcraft there is, I’ve heard — I’ve learned all our course books by heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough — I“ Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you?” Hermione Granger said all this very fast. Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by Harry stunned face that Harry hadn’t learned all the course books by heart either. “I’m Ron Weasley,” Ron muttered. “Harry Potter,” said Harry. “Are you really?” said Hermione. “I know all about you, of course — I got a few extra books for background reading, and you’re in Modern Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.” “Am I?” said Harry, feeling dazed. “Goodness, didn’t you know, I’d have found out everything I could if it was me,” said Hermione. “Do either of you know what House you’ll be in? I’ve been asking around, and I hope I’m in Gryffindor, it sounds by far the best; I hear Albus Dumbledore was in it, but I suppose Ravenclaw wouldn’t be too bad. ... Anyway, we’d better go and look for Now Percy’s a prefect toad. You two had better change, you know, I expect we’ll be there soon.” And she left, taking the toadless boy with she. “Whatever what House I’m in, I hope she’s not in what House,” said Ron. Ron threw a very battered-looking wand back into his trunk. “Stupid spell — George gave it to George , bet George knew it was a dud.” “what House what House are your brothers in?” asked Harry. Gryffindor,” said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling on Ron again. “Mom and Dad were in it, too. I don’t know what Mom and Dad’ll say if ’m. I don’t suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if Mom and Dad put me in Slytherin.” “That’s the House Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was in?” “Yeah,” said Ron. Ron flopped back into Ron seat, looking depressed. “You know, I think the ends of Scabbers’ whiskers are a bit lighter,” said Harry, trying to take Ron’s mind off Houses. “So what do your oldest brothers do now that your oldest brothers’ve left, anyway?” Harry was wondering what a wizard did once Harry’d finished school. “Charlie’s in Romania studying dragons, and Bill’s in Africa doing something for Gringotts,” said Ron. “Did you hear about Gringotts? ItNow Percy’s a prefect been all over the Daily Prophet, but I don’t suppose you get that with the Muggles — someone tried to rob a high security vault.” Harry stared. “Really? What happened to them?” “Nothing, that’s why it’s such big news. They haven’t been caught. My dad says it must’ve been a powerful Dark wizard to get GringottsGringotts, but They don’t think They took anything, that’s “Charlie’s in Romania odd. ’Course, everyone gets scared when something like this happens in case You-Know-Who’s behind it.” Harry turned this news over in Harry mind. Harry was starting to get a prickle of fear every time You-Know- Who was mentioned. Harry supposed this was all part of entering the magical world, but this had been a lot more comfortable saying “Voldemort” without worrying. “WhatNow Percy’s a prefect your Quidditch team?” Ron asked. “Er — I don’t know any,” Harry confessed. “What!” Ron looked dumbfounded. “Oh, you wait, it“Charlie’s in Romaniathe best game in the world — ” And Ron was off, explaining all about the four balls and the positions of the seven players, describing famous games Ron’d been to with Ron brothers and the broomstick Ron’d like to get if Ron had the money. Ron was just taking Harrythrough the finer points of the game when the compartment door slid open yet again, but the compartment door wasn’t Neville the toadless boy, or Hermione Granger this time. Three boys entered, and Harry recognized the middle one at once: It was the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop. the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop was looking at Harry with a lot more interest than the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop’d shown back in Diagon Alley. “Is it true?” the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop said. “Three boys’re saying all down the train that Harry Potter’s in this compartment. So all down the train that Harry Potter’s in this compartment’s you, is all down the train that Harry Potter’s in this compartment?” “Yes,” said Harry. the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop was looking at Three boys. Both of Three boys were thickset and looked extremely mean. Standing on either side of the pale boy, Both of them looked like bodyguards. “Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,” said the pale boy carelessly, noticing where Harry was looking. “And my names Malfoy, Draco Malfoy.” Ron gave a slight cough, which might have been hiding a snigger. Draco Malfoy looked at Ron. “Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford.” My father turned back to Harry. “You’ll soon find out some wizarding families are much better than others, Potter. You don’t want to go making friends with the wrong sort. I can help you there.” My father held out My father hand to shake “Charlie’s in Romania, but Harrydidn’t take his hand. “I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for My father, thanks,” My father said coolly. Draco Malfoy didn’t go red, but a pink tinge appeared in Draco Malfoy pale cheeks. “I’d be careful if I were you, Potter,” My father said slowly. “Unless you’re a bit politer you’ll go the same way as your parents. your parents didn’t know what was good for your parents, either. You hang around with riffraff like the Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it’ll rub off on you.” Both Harry and Ron stood up. “Say that again,” Ron said, Ron face as red as Ron hair. “Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?” Draco Malfoysneered. “Unless you get out now,” said Harry, more bravely than Harry felt, because Crabbe and Goyle were a lot bigger than Harry or Ron. “But us don’t feel like leaving, do us, boys? us’ve eaten all us food and you still seem to have some.” Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Ron leapt forward, but before Ron’d so much as touched Goyle, Goyle let out a horrible yell. Scabbers the rat was hanging off Scabbers finger, sharp little teeth sunk deep into Goyle ’s knuckle — Crabbe and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung Scabbersround and round, howling, and when Scabbers finally flew off and hit the window, all three of — Crabbe and Malfoy disappeared at once. Perhaps — Crabbe and Malfoy thought there were “ more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps — Crabbe and Malfoy’d heard footsteps, because a second later, Hermione Granger had come in. “What has been going on?” she said, looking at the sweets all over the floor and Ron picking up Scabbersby Ron tail. “I think RonNow Percy’s a prefect been knocked out,” Ron said to Harry. Ron looked closer at Scabbers. “No — I don’t believe it — Now Percy’s a prefect gone back to sleep.” And so Ron had. “You’ve met Draco Malfoy before?” Harry explained about — Crabbe and Malfoy meeting in Diagon Alley. “I’ve heard of Harry family,” said Ron darkly. “— Crabbe and Malfoy were some of the first to come back to — Crabbe and Malfoy side after You- Know-Who disappeared. Said — Crabbe and Malfoy’d been bewitched. My dad doesn’t believe it. My dad says Draco Malfoyfather didn’t need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side.” My dad turned to Hermione. “Can — Crabbe and Malfoy help you with something?” “You’d better hurry up and put your robes on, I’ve just been up to the front to ask the conductor, and the conductor says — Crabbe and Malfoy’re nearly there. You haven’t been fighting, have you? You’ll be in trouble before — Crabbe and Malfoy even get there!” Scabbers has been fighting, not — Crabbe and Malfoy,” said Ron, scowling at her. “Would you mind leaving while — Crabbe and Malfoy change?” “All right — I only came in here because people outside are behaving very childishly, racing up and down the corridors,” said Hermione in a sniffy voice. “And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you know?” Ron glared at her as her left. Harry peered out of the window. It was getting dark. Harry could see mountains and forests under a deep purple sky. The train did seem to be slowing down. Ron, took off Ron, jackets and pulled on Ron, . “Charlie’s in Romania were a bit short for Ron, you could see Ron sneakers underneath Ron, . A voice echoed through The train: “Ron, will be reaching Hogwarts in five minutes’ time. Please leave your luggage on The train, The train will be taken to the school separately.” Harry’s stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, Ron saw, looked pale under Ron freckles. They crammed They pockets with the last of the sweets and joined the crowd thronging the corridor. The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushed People way toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered in the cold night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of the students, and Harry heard a familiar voice: “Firs’ years! Firs’ years over here! All right there, Harry?” Hagrid’s big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads. “C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer step, now! Firs’ years follow me!” Slipping and stumbling, ” Slipping and stumbling followed Hagrid’s down what seemed to be a steep, narrow path. It was so dark on either side of ” Slipping and stumbling that Harry thought there must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much. Neville, the boy who kept losing Harry Potter toad, sniffed once or twice. “Yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a sec,” Hagrid called over Hagrid shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here.” There was a loud “Oooooh!” The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a great black lake. Perched atop a high mountain on the other side, the other side windows sparkling in the starry sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers. “No more’n four to a boat!” Hagrid’s called, pointing to a fleet of little boats sitting in the water by the shore. Harry and Ron were followed into Harry and Ron boat by Neville and Hermione. “Everyone in?” shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to himself. “Right then — FORWARD!” And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, gliding across the lake, which was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great castle overhead. It towered over Everyone as Everyone sailed nearer and nearer to the cliff on which It stood. “Heads down!” yelled Hagrid’s as the first boats reached the cliff; they all bent they all heads and the little boats carried they all through a curtain of ivy that hid a wide opening in the cliff face. they all were carried along a dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking they all right underneath the great castle overhead, until they all reached a kind of underground harbor, where they all clambered out onto rocks and pebbles. “Oy, you there! Is this your toad?” said Hagrid, who was checking the boats as people climbed out of the boats. “Trevor!” cried Neville blissfully, holding out his hands. Then they all clambered up a passageway in the rock after Hagrid’s lamp, coming out at last onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the great castle overhead. they all walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around the huge, oak front door. “Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?” Hagrid’s raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on front door. THE SORTING HAT front door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green robes stood there. A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green robes had a very stern face and “Charlie’s in Romania first thought was that this was not someone to cross. “The firs’ years, Professor McGonagall,” said Hagrid’s. “Thank you, Hagrid’s. I will take Hagrid’s from here.” A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green robes pulled front door wide. The entrance hall was so big you could have fit the whole of the Dursleys’ house in The entrance hall. The stone walls were lit with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too high to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase facing flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts led to the upper floors. flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts followed Professor McGonagall across the flagged stone floor. Harry could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right — the rest of the school must already be here — but Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a small, empty chamber off The entrance hall. flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts crowded in, Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. standing rather closer together than flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts would usually have done, peering about nervously. “Welcome to Hogwarts,” said Professor McGonagall. “The start-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your seats in the Great Hall, you will be sorted into your Houses. The Sorting is a very important ceremony because, while you are here, your House will be something like your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes with the rest of your House, sleep in your House dormitory, and spend free time in your House common room. “your Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin. House House has House own noble history and each has produced outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your triumphs will earn your House points, while any rule- breaking will lose House points. At the end of the year, the House with the most points is awarded the House cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a credit to whichever House becomes yours. “The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can while you are waiting.” Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville’s cloak, which was fastened under Neville’s left ear, and on “Charlie’s in Romaniasmudged nose. Harry nervously tried to flatten Harry hair. “I shall return when we are ready for you,” said Professor McGonagall. “Please wait quietly.” Professor McGonagall left the chamber. Harry swallowed. “How exactly do they sort we into Houses?” he asked Ron. “Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think Fred was joking.” Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole school? But Fred didn’t know any magic yet — what on earth would Fred have to do? Fred hadn’t expected something like this the moment they arrived. Fred looked around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified, too. No one was talking much except Hermione Granger, who was whispering very fast about all the spells No one’d learned and wondering which one No one’d need. Harry tried hard not to listen to No one. He’d never been more nervous, never, not even when Harry’d had to take a school report home to the Dursleys saying that Harry’d somehow turned Harry teachers wig blue. Harry kept Harry eyes fixed on the door. Any second now, Professor McGonagall would come back and lead Professor McGonagall to Professor McGonagall doom. Then something happened that made Professor McGonagall jump about a foot in the air — several people behind Professor McGonagall screamed. “What the — ?” Professor McGonagall gasped. So did the people around Professor McGonagall. About twenty ghosts had just streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent, About twenty ghosts glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancing at the first years. they seemed to be arguing. What looked like a fat little monk was saying: “Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give a fat little monk a second chance — ” “My dear Friar, haven’t we given Peeves all the chances a fat little monk deserves? a fat little monk gives us all a bad name and you know, a fat little monk’s not really even a ghost — I say, what are you all doing here?” A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed the first years. Nobody answered. “New students!” said My dear Friar, smiling around at New students. “About to be Sorted, I suppose?” A few people nodded mutely. “Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!” said My dear Friar. “My old House, you know.” “Move along now,” said a sharp voice. “The Sorting Ceremony’s about to start.” Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, About twenty ghosts floated away through the back wall. “Now, form a line,” Professor McGonagall told the first years, “and follow me.” Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, Harry got into line behind a boy with sandy hair, with Ron behind his, and they walked out of the chamber, back across the hall, and through a pair of double doors into the Great Hall. Harry had never even imagined such a strange and splendid place. It was lit by thousands and thousands of candles that were floating in midair over four long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting. four long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting. were laid with glittering golden plates and goblets. At the top of the hall was another long table where the teachers were sitting. Professor McGonagall led the first years up here, so that they came to a halt in a line facing the other students, with the teachers behind the other students. The hundreds of faces staring at the other students looked like pale lanterns in the flickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among the students, About twenty ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes, Harry looked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. Harry heard Hermione whisper, “It’s bewitched to look like the sky outside. I read about It in Hogwarts, A History.” It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, and that the Great Hall didn’t simply open on to the heavens. Harry quickly looked down again as Professor silently placed a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of the stool she put a pointed wizard’s hat. a pointed wizard’s hat was patched and frayed and extremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn’t have let a pointed wizard’s hat in the house. Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of a rabbit, Harrythought wildly, that seemed the sort of thing — noticing that everyone in the Great Hall was now staring at a pointed wizard’s hat, Harry stared at a pointed wizard’s hat, too. For a few seconds, there was complete silence. Then a pointed wizard’s hat twitched. A rip near the brim opened wide like a mouth — and a pointed wizard’s hat began to sing: “Oh, you may not think I’m pretty, But don’t judge on what you see, I’ll eat Harry if you can find A smarter hat than Harry. You can keep your bowlers black, Your top hats sleek and tall, For I’m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat And I can cap Your top hats. There’s nothing hidden in your head a pointed wizard’s hat can’t see, So try me on and I will tell you Where you ought to be. You might belong in Gryffindor, Where dwell the brave at heart, Their daring, nerve, and chivalry Set Gryffindors apart; You might belong in Hufflepuff, Where Their are just and loyal, Those patient Hufflepuffs are true And unafraid of toil; Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw, If you’ve a ready mind, Where those of wit and learning, Will always find those of wit and learning kind; Or perhaps in Slytherin You’ll make your real friends, Those cunning folk use any means To achieve Those cunning folk ends. So put me on! Don’t be afraid l\ And don’t get in a flap\ You’re in safe hands (though I have none) For I’m a Thinking Cap\” The whole hall burst into applause as a pointed wizard’s hat finished The whole hall song. The whole hall bowed to each of the four tables and then became quite still again. “So we’ve just got to try on a pointed wizard’s hat!” Ron whispered to HarryHarry. “I’ll kill Fred, Fred was going on about wrestling a troll.” Harry smiled weakly. Yes, trying on a pointed wizard’s hat was a lot better than having to do a spell, but Fred did wish they could have tried a pointed wizard’s hat on without everyone watching. a pointed wizard’s hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Harry didn’t feel brave or quick-witted or any of a pointed wizard’s hat at the moment. If only the hat had mentioned a House for people who felt a bit queasy, that would have been the one for him. Professor McGonagall now stepped forward holding a long roll of parchment. “When I call your name, you will put on a pointed wizard’s hat and sit on the stool to be sorted,” Professor McGonagall said. “Abbott, Hannah!” A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line, put on the hat, which fell right down over A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtailseyes, and sat down. A moment’s pause — Hufflepuff!” shouted a pointed wizard’s hat. The table on the right cheered and clapped as Hannah went to sit down at the Hufflepuff table. Harry saw the ghost of My dear Friar waving merrily at her. “Bones, Susan!” Hufflepuff!” shouted a pointed wizard’s hat again, and Susanscuttled off to sit next to Hannah. “Boot, Terry!” “RAVENCLAW!” the Hufflepuff table second from the left clapped this time; several Ravenclaws stood up to shake hands with Terry as Terry joined several Ravenclaws. “Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but “Brown, Lavender” became the first new Gryffindor, and the table on the far left exploded with cheers; Harry could see “Charlie’s in Romania twin brothers catcalling. “Bulstrode, Millicent” then became a Slytherin. Perhaps it was Harry’s imagination, after all Harry’d heard about Slytherin, but Harry thought they looked like an unpleasant lot. Harry was starting to feel definitely sick now. Harry remembered being picked for teams during gym at Harry old school. Harry had always been last to be chosen, not because Harry was no good, but because no one wanted Dudley to think they liked Harry. “Finch-Fletchley, Justin!” “HUFFLEPUFF!” Sometimes, Harry noticed, a pointed wizard’s hat shouted out the House at once, but at others the House took a little while to decide. “Finnigan, Seamus,” the sandy-haired boy next to Harry in the line, sat on the stool for almost a whole minute before a pointed wizard’s hat declared him a Gryffindor. “Granger, Hermione!” Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed a pointed wizard’s hateagerly on Hermione head. “GRYFFINDOR!” shouted a pointed wizard’s hat. Ron groaned. A horrible thought struck Harry, as horrible thoughts always do when you’re very nervous. What if Harry wasn’t chosen at all? What if Harry just sat there with the hat over Harry eyes for ages, until Professor jerked it off Harry head and said there had obviously been a mistake and Harry’d better get back on the train? When Neville Longbottom, the boy who kept losing his toad, was called, his fell over on his way to the stool. a pointed wizard’s hat took a long time to decide with his. When a pointed wizard’s hat finally shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!”,” his ran off still wearing a pointed wizard’s hat, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter to give a pointed wizard’s hat to “MacDougal, Morag.” Malfoy swaggered forward when ” Malfoy name was called and got ” Malfoy wish at once: a pointed wizard’s hat had barely touched ” Malfoy when a pointed wizard’s hat screamed, “SLYTHERIN!” Malfoy went to join ” Malfoy friends Crabbe and Goyle, looking pleased with ” Malfoy. There weren’t many people left now. “Moon” , “Nott” ... , “Parkinson” ... , then a pair of twin girls, “Path” and “Path” ... , then “Perks, Sally- Anne” . . . , and then, at last — “Potter, Harry!” As Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out like little hissing fires all over the hall. “ Potter , did Anne” say?” “ “ Potter?” The last thing Harry saw before a pointed wizard’s hat dropped over Harry eyes was the hall full of people craning to get a good look at Harry. Next second Harry was looking at the black inside of a pointed wizard’s hat. Harry waited. “Hmm,” said a small voice in Harry ear. “Difficult. Very difficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes — and a nice thirst to prove yourself, now that’s interesting. ... So where shall I put you?” Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not Slytherin, not Slytherin. “Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voice. “Are you sure? You could be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that — no? Well, if you’re sure — better be GRYFFINDOR!” Harry heard a pointed wizard’s hat shout the last word to the whole hall. Harry took off a pointed wizard’s hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffindor table. Harry was so relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, Harry hardly noticed that Harry was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the Prefect got up and shook Harry hand vigorously, while the Weasley twins yelled, “We got Harry Potter! We got Harry Potter!” Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff Harry’d seen earlier. the ghost in the ruff patted the ghost in the ruff arm, giving Harry the sudden, horrible feeling the ghost in the ruff ’d just plunged his arm into a bucket of ice-cold water. the ghost in the ruff could see the High Table properly now. At the end nearest the ghost in the ruff sat Hagrid, who caught the ghost in the ruff eye and gave the ghost in the ruff the thumbs up. Harry grinned back. And there, in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair, sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized Albus Dumbledore at once from the card Albus Dumbledore’d gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on the train. Albus Dumbledore silver hair was the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the ghosts. Harry spotted Professor Quirrell, too, the nervous young man from the Leaky Cauldron. Harry was looking very peculiar in a large purple turban. And now there were only four people left to be sorted. “Thomas, Dean,” a Black boy even taller than Ron, joined Harry at the Gryffindor table. “Turpin, Lisa,” became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron’s turn. Ron was pale green by now. Harry crossed Harry fingers under the table and a second later a pointed wizard’s hat had shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!” Harry clapped loudly with the rest as Ron collapsed into a large gold chair next to Harry. “Well done, Ron, excellent,” said Percy Weasley pompously across Harry as “Zabini, Blaise,” was made a Slytherin. Professor McGonagall rolled up Professor McGonagall scroll and took a pointed wizard’s hat away. Harry looked down at Harry empty gold plate. Harry had only just realized how hungry Harry was. The pumpkin pasties seemed ages ago. Albus Dumbledore had gotten to Albus Dumbledore feet. Albus Dumbledore was beaming at the students, Albus Dumbledore arms opened wide, as if nothing could have pleased Albus Dumbledore more than to see them all there. “Welcome!” Albus Dumbledore said. “Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts! Before we begin we banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit! Blubber! Oddment! Tweak! “Thank you!” Albus Dumbledore sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered. Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not. “Is Harry — a bit mad?” Harry asked Percy uncertainly. “Mad?” said Percy airily. “Harry’s a genius! Best wizard in the world! But Harry is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Harry?” Harry’s mouth fell open. The dishes in front of Harry were now piled with food. Harry had never seen so many things Harry liked to eat on one table: roast beef, roast chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, sausages, bacon and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, fries, Yorkshire pudding, peas, carrots, gravy, ketchup, and, for some strange reason, peppermint humbugs. The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry, but The Dursleys’d never been allowed to eat as much as The Dursleys liked. Dudley had always taken anything that Harry really wanted, even if it made Harry sick. Harry piled Harry plate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began to eat. It was all delicious. “That does look good,” said the ghost in the ruff sadly, watching Harry cut up Harry steak. “Can’t you — ?” “I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years,” said the ghost in the ruff . “I don’t need to, of course, but one does miss it. I don’t think I’ve introduced Harry? Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service. Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower.” “I know who you are!” said Ron suddenly. “My brothers told me about you — you’re Nearly Headless Nick!” “I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — ” the ghost in the ruff began stiffly, but sandy-haired Seamus Finnigan interrupted. “Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?” Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — looked extremely miffed, as if their little chat wasn’t going at all the way Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — wanted. “Like this,” Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — said irritably. Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — seized Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — left ear and pulled. Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — whole head swung off Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — neck and fell onto Sir Nicholas de Mimsy — shoulder as if his shoulder was on a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead Sir Nicholas de Mimsy —, but not done Someone properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces, Nearly Headless Nick flipped Nearly Headless Nick head back onto Nearly Headless Nick , coughed, and said, “So — new Gryffindors! I hope you’re going to help us win the House Championship this year? Gryffindors have never gone so long without winning. Slytherins have got the cup six years in a row! The Bloody Baron’s becoming almost unbearable — he’s the Slytherin ghost.” Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horrible ghost sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a gaunt face, and robes stained with silver blood. Harry was right next to Malfoy who, Harry was pleased to see, didn’t look too pleased with the seating arrangements. “How did Harry get covered in blood?” asked Seamus with great interest. “I’ve never asked,” said Nearly Headless Nearly Headless Nickdelicately. When everyone had eaten as much as everyone could, the remains of the food faded from the plates, leaving everyone sparkling clean as before. A moment later the desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor you could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate eclairs and jam doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell- , rice pudding ... As Harry helped Harry to a treacle tart, the talk turned to their families. “I’m half-and-half,” said Seamus . “Me dad’s a Muggle. Mom didn’t tell ’s a Muggle. Mom was a witch ’til after they were married. Bit of a nasty shock for ’s a Muggle. .” The others laughed. “What about you, Neville?” said Ron. “Well, Gran brought me up and Mom’s a witch,” said Neville, “but the family thought I was all- Muggle for ages. My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me — My Great Uncle Algie pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned — but nothing happened until I was eight. My Great Uncle Algie Uncle Algie came round for dinner, and My Great Uncle Algie was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered My Great Uncle Algie a meringue and My Great Uncle Algie accidentally let go. But I bounced — all the way down the garden and into the road. — all the way down the garden and into the road were all Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. really pleased, Gran was crying, Gran was so happy. And you should have seen — all the way down the garden and into the road faces when I got in here — — all the way down the garden and into the road thought I might not be magic enough to come, you see. My Great Uncle Algie My Great Uncle Algie was so pleased My Great Uncle Algiebought me my toad.” On he’s the Slytherin ghost other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione were talking about lessons (“I do hope Harry’s other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione start right away, there’s so much to learn, I’m particularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning something into something else, of course, it’s supposed to be very difficult — “You’ll be starting small, just matches into needles and that sort of thing — ”). Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at the High Table again. Hagrid was drinking deeply from Hagrid goblet. Professor McGonagallwas talking to Professor Dumbledore. Professor Quirrell, in Professor Quirrell absurd turban, was talking to a teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin. It happened very suddenly. a teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skinlooked past Quirrell’s turban straight into Harry’s eyes — and a sharp, hot pain shot across the scar on Harry’s forehead. “Ouch!” Harry clapped a hand to Harry head. “What is it?” asked Percy. “N-nothing.” The pain had gone as quickly as The pain had come. Harder to shake off was the feeling Harry had gotten from the teacher’s look — a feeling that he didn’t like Harry at all. “Who’s that teacher talking to Quirrell?” he asked Percy. “Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder Quirrell’s looking so nervous, he’s the Slytherin ghost. Quirrell teaches Potions, but Quirrell doesn’t want to — everyone knows Quirrell’s he’s the Slytherin ghost . Knows an awful lot about the Dark Arts, Snape.” Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn’t look at Snape again. At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Quirrellgot to Professor Dumbledore again. The hall fell silent. “Ahem — just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I have a few start-of-term notices to give you. “First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to all pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember that as well.” Dumbledore ’s twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of the Weasley twins. “I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to remind you all that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors. “Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone interested in playing for their House teams should contact Madam Hooch. “And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third- floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful death.” Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Harry laughed, but the Philosophers Stone - J.K. was one of the few who did. “the Philosophers Stone - J.K. ’s not serious?” the Philosophers Stone - J.K. muttered to Percy. “Must be,” said Percy, frowning at Professor Dumbledore. “Ithe’s the Slytherin ghostodd, because he’s the Slytherin ghost usually gives us a reason why we’re not allowed to go somewhere — he’s the Slytherin ghost, everyone knows that. I do think he’s the Slytherin ghost might have told us prefects, at least.” “And now, before us go to bed, let us sing the school song!” cried Professor Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other teachers’ smiles had become rather fixed. Professor Dumbledore gave Professor Dumbledore wand a little flick, as if Professor Dumbledore was trying to get a fly off the end, and a long golden ribbon flew out of he was , which rose high above the tables and twisted he was , snakelike, into words. “Everyone pick Everyone favorite tune,” said Professor Dumbledore, “and off we go!” And the school bellowed: “Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts, Teach we something please, Whether we be old and bald Or young with scabby knees, we heads could do with filling With some interesting stuff, For now Our heads’re bare and full of air, Dead flies and bits of fluff, Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. So teach we things worth knowing, Bring back what we’ve forgot, Just do your best, we’ll do the rest, And learn until we brains all rot.” Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, only the Weasley twins were left singing along to a very slow funeral march. Professor Dumbledore conducted only the Weasley twins last few lines with his wand and when only the Weasley twins had finished, Professor Dumbledore was one of those who clapped loudest. “Ah, music,” Professor Dumbledore said, wiping Professor Dumbledore eyes. “A magic beyond all we do here! And now, bedtime. Off you trot!” The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds, out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Harry’s legs were like lead again, but only because Percy was so tired and full of food. Percy was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits along the corridors whispered and pointed as the people in the portraits along the corridors passed, or that Percy Percy led the people in the portraits along the corridors through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hanging tapestries. the people in the portraits along the corridors climbed more staircases, yawning and dragging the people in the portraits along the corridors feet, and Harry was just wondering how much farther the people in the portraits along the corridors had to go when the people in the portraits along the corridors came to a sudden halt. A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of the people in the portraits along the corridors, and as Percy took a step toward the people in the portraits along the corridors the people in the portraits along the corridors started throwing the people in the portraits along the corridors at Percy. “Peeves,” Percy whispered to the first years. “A poltergeist.” Percy raised Percy voice, “Peeves — show yourself.” A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon, answered. “Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?” There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark eyes and a wide mouth appeared, floating cross- legged in the air, clutching the walking sticks. “Oooooooh!” the Bloody Baron said, with an evil cackle. “Ickle Firsties! What fun!” the Bloody Baron swooped suddenly at the walking sticks. the walking sticks ducked. “Go away, Peeves, or the Baron’ll hear about this, I mean this!” barked Percy. Peeves stuck out Peeves tongue and vanished, dropping the walking sticks on Neville’s head. They heard Peeves zooming away, rattling coats of armor as Peeves passed. “You want to watch out for Peeves,” said Percy, as they set off again. “the Bloody Baron’s the only one who can control the Bloody Baron, the Bloody Baron won’t even listen to us prefects. Here us are.” At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress. “Password?” a very fat woman said. “Caput Draconis,” said Percy, and a portrait of a very fat woman swung forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. They all scrambled through a round hole in the wall — Neville needed a leg up — and found They all in the Gryffindor common room, a cozy, round room full of squashy armchairs. Percy directed the girls through one door to the girls dormitory and the boys through another. At the top of Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. a spiral staircase — they were obviously in one of the towers — they found they beds at last: five four- posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. five four- posterstrunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk much, Their trunks pulled on five four- posters pajamas and fell into bed. “Great food, isn’t it?” Ron muttered to Harry through the hangings. “Get off Scabbers! Ron’s chewing my sheets.” Harry was going to ask Ron if Ron’d had any of the treacle tart, but Harry fell asleep almost at once. Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because Harry had a very strange dream. Harry was wearing Professor Quirrell’s turban, which kept talking to Harry, telling Harry Harry must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it was Harry destiny. Harry told Quirrell’s turban Harry didn’t want to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier; Harry tried to pull it off but it tightened painfully — and there was Malfoy, laughing at Harry as Harry struggled with it — then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher, Snape, whose laugh became high and cold — there was a burst of green light and Harry woke, sweating and shaking. Harry rolled over and fell asleep again, and when Harry woke next day, Harry didn’t remember the dream at all. THE POTIONS MASTER “There, look.” “Where?” “Next to the tall kid with the red hair.” “Wearing the glasses?” “Did you see Harry face?” “Did you see Harry scar?” Whispers followed Harry from the moment Harry left Harry dormitory the next day. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at Harry, or doubled back to pass Harry in the corridors again, staring. Harry wished People lining up outside classrooms wouldn’t, because Harry was trying to concentrate on finding Harry way to classes. There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewhere different on a Friday; some Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tickled doors that wouldn’t open unless you asked politely in exactly the right place, and doors that weren’t really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It was also very hard to remember where anything was, because it all seemed to move around a lot. The people in the portraits kept going to visit each other, and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk. The ghosts didn’t help, either. It was always a nasty shock when one of The ghosts glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nearly Headless Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right direction, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a trick staircase if you met Nick when you were late for class. Nick would drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech, “GOT YOUR CONK!” Even worse than Peeves the Poltergeist, if that was possible, was the caretaker, Argus Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get on the wrong side of Harry on Harry and Ron very first morning. Argus Filch found Harry and Ron trying to force Harry and Ron way through a door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. Argus Filch wouldn’t believe Harry and Ron were lost, was sure Harry and Ron were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threatening to lock Harry and Ron in the dungeons when Harry and Ron were rescued by Professor Quirrell, who was passing. Argus Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust- colored creature with bulging, lamplike eyes just like Filch’s. She patrolled the corridors alone. Break a rule in front of She, put just one toe out of line, and she’d whisk off for Filch, who’d appear, wheezing, two seconds later. Argus Filch knew the secret passageways of Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. the school better than anyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any of The ghosts. The students all hated anyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins), and it was the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a good kick. And then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Harry quickly found out, than waving his wand and saying a few funny words. They had to study the night skies through They telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the movements of the planets. Three times a week They went out to the greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy little witch called Professor Sprout, where They learned how to take care of all the strange plants and fungi, and found out what They were used for. Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor Binns had been very old indeed when Professor Binns had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next morning to teach, leaving Professor Binns body behind Professor Binns. Professor Binnsdroned on and on while They scribbled down names and dates, and got Emeric the Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up. Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. At the start of their first class his took the roll call, and when his reached Harry’s name his gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight. Professor Binns was again different. Harry had been quite right to think Professor Binns wasn’t a teacher to cross. Strict and clever, Professor Binns gave cross a talking- to the moment cross sat down in Professor Binns first class. “Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you will learn at Hogwarts,” Professor Binns said. “Anyone messing around in my class will leave and not come back. You have been warned.” Then Professor Binns changed his desk into a pig and back again. Anyone messing around in my class were all very impressed and couldn’t wait to get started, but soon realized Anyone messing around in my class weren’t going to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time. After taking a lot of complicated notes, Anyone messing around in my class were each given a match and started trying to turn a match into a needle. By the end of the lesson, only Hermione Granger had made any difference to only Hermione Granger match; Professor Binns showed my class how my class had gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare smile. The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell’s lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. Quirrell’s classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said was to ward off a vampire he’d met in Romania and was afraid would be coming back to get Quirrell’s one of these days. Quirrell’s , Quirrell’s told them, had been given to Quirrell’s by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie, but them weren’t sure them believed this story. For one thing, when Seamus Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell had fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and started talking about the weather; for another, them had noticed that a funny smell hung around Quirrell’s turban, and the Weasley twins insisted that Quirrell was stuffed full of garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected wherever Quirrell went. Harry was very relieved to find out that Harry wasn’t miles behind everyone else. Lots of people had come from Muggle families and, like Harry, hadn’t had any idea that Lots of people were witches and wizards. There was so much to learn that even people like Ron didn’t have much of a head start. Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. Harry and Ron finally managed to find Harry and Ron way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost once. “What have we got today?” Harry asked Ron as Ron poured sugar on Ron porridge. “Double Potions with the Slytherins,” said Ron. “Snape’s Head of Slytherin House. They say Snape’s Head of Slytherin House always favors They — we’ll be able to see if it’s true.” “Professor Binns favored us,” said Harry. Professor Binns was head of Gryffindor House, but Professor Binns hadn’t stopped Professor Binns from giving them a huge pile of homework the day before. Just then, the mail arrived. Harry had gotten used to this by now, but the mail had given Harry a bit of a shock on the first morning, when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast, circling the tables until about a hundred owls saw about a hundred owls owners, and dropping letters and packages onto about a hundred owls laps. Hedwig hadn’t brought Harry anything so far. Hedwig sometimes flew in to nibble Harry ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the other school owls. This morning, however, She fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto Harry’s plate. Harrytore Harry’s plate open at once. Harry said, in a very untidy scrawl: Dear Harry, I know you get Friday afternoons off so would you like to come and have a cup of tea with me around three? I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an answer back with Hedwig. Harry Harry borrowed Ron’s quill, scribbled Yes, please, see you later on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off again. It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look forward to, because the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to Harry so far. At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the idea that Professor Snape disliked Harry. By the end of the first Potions lesson, Harry knew Harry’d been wrong. Professor Snape didn’t dislike Harry — Professor Snape hated Harry —. Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It was colder here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls. Professor Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call, and like Flitwick, Professor Snape paused at Harry’s name. “Ah, yes,” Professor Snape said softly, “Harry Potter. Our new — celebrity.” Draco Malfoy and Draco Malfoy friends Crabbe and Goyle sniggered behind their hands. Professor Snape finished calling the names and looked up at the class. Professor Snape eyes were black like Hagrid ’s, but they had none of Hagrid ’s warmth. warmth were cold and empty and made you think of dark tunnels. “You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potion-making,” he began. he spoke in barely more than a whisper, but warmth caught every word — like Professor Binns, Professor Snape had the gift of keeping a class silent without effort. “As there is little foolish wand- waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don’t expect you will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses. ... I can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach.” More silence followed this little speech. Harry and Ron exchanged looks with raised eyebrows. only Hermione Granger was on the edge of only Hermione Granger seat and looked desperate to start proving that only Hermione Granger wasn’t a dunderhead. “Harry Potter!” said Professor Snape suddenly. “What would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?” Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harryglanced at Ron, who looked as stumped as Harry was; Hermione ’s hand had shot into the air. “I don’t know, sir,” said Harry. Professor Snape ’s lips curled into a sneer. “Tut, tut — fame clearly isn’t everything.” Tut ignored Hermione ’s hand. “Let’s try again. “Harry Potter, where would you look if I told you to find me a bezoar?” Hermione stretched Hermione hand as high into the air as it would go without Hermione leaving her seat, but Harrydidn’t have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. Harrytried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who were shaking with laughter. “I don’t know, sir.” “Thought you wouldn’t open a book before coming, eh, “Harry Potter?” Harry forced Harry to keep looking straight into those cold eyes. Harry had looked through Harry books at the Dursleys’, but did Professor Snape expect Professor Snape to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi ? Professor Snape was still ignoring ’s quivering hand. “What is the difference, “Harry Potter, between monkshood and wolfsbane?” At this, Hermione stood up, Hermione hand stretching toward the dungeon ceiling. “I don’t know,” said Harry quietly. “I think Hermionedoes, though, why don’t you try Hermione?” A few people laughed; Harry caught Seamus’s eye, and Seamus winked. Professor Snape, however, was not pleased. “Sit down,” Professor Snape snapped at Hermione. “For your information, “Harry Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful a sleeping potion is known as the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and a goat will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite. Well? Why aren’t you all copying that down?” There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Over the noise, Professor Snape said, “And a point will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek, Potter.” Things didn’t improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lesson continued. Professor Snape put them all into pairs and set pairs to mixing up a simple potion to cure boils. Professor Snape swept around in Professor Snape long black cloak, watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizing almost everyone except Malfoy, whom Professor Snape seemed to like. Professor Snape was just telling everyone to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed Professor Snape horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the dungeon. Professor Snape had somehow managed to melt Seamus’s cauldron into a twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor, burning holes in people’s shoes. Within seconds, the whole class was standing on their stools while Neville, who had been drenched in their potionwhen Seamus’s cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boils sprang up all over Professor Snape arms and legs. “Idiot boy!” snarled Professor Snape, clearing their potionaway with one wave of Professor Snape wand. “I suppose you added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron off the fire?” Professor Snape whimpered as boils started to pop up all over Professor Snape nose. “Take Professor Snape up to the hospital wing,” Professor Snape spat at Seamus. Then Professor Snape rounded on Harry and Ron, who had been working next to Professor Snape. “You — Potter — why didn’t you tell You — Potter — not to add the porcupine quills? Thought You — Potter —’d make you look good if You — Potter — got it wrong, did you? That’s another point you’ve lost for Gryffindor.” This was so unfair that Harry opened Harry mouth to argue, but Ron kicked Harry behind argue cauldron. “Don’t push it,” Ron muttered, “I’ve heard Professor Snape can turn very nasty.” As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later, Harry’s mind was racing and Harry’s spirits were low. He’d lost two points for Gryffindor in Harry’s very first week — why did Professor Snape hate Professor Snape so much? “Cheer up,” said Ron, Seamus’s always taking points off Fred and George. Can I come and meet Hagrid with you?” At five to three five to three left the main castle and made five to three way across the grounds. Hagrid lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the forbidden forest. A crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside the front door. When Harry knocked A crossbow and a pair of galoshes heard a frantic scrabbling from inside and several booming barks. Then Hagrid voice rang out, saying, “Back, Fang — back.” Hagrid ’s big, hairy face appeared in the crack as Harry pulled the door open. “Hang on,” Harry said. “Back, Fang.” Harry let Back, Fang.” in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous black boarhound. There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants were hanging from the ceiling, a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire, and in the corner stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over a massive bed. “Make yerselves at home,” said Hagrid , letting go of Fang, who bounded straight at Ron and started licking Ron ears. Like Hagrid , Fang was clearly not as fierce as Fang looked. “This is Ron,” Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate. “Another Weasley, eh?” said Hagrid, glancing at Ron’s freckles. “I spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers away from the forest.” The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almost broke The rock cakes teeth, but Harry and Ronpretended to be enjoying The rock cakes as The rock cakes told Hagrid all about Harry and Ron first lessons. Fang rested Fang head on Harry’s knee and drooled all over Fang robes. Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call Filch “that old git.” “An’ as fer that cat, Mrs. Norris, I’d like ter introduce her to Fang sometime. D’yeh know, every time I go up ter the school, her follows me everywhere? Can’t get rid of her puts her up to it.” Harry told Hagrid about Professor Snape’s lesson. Hagrid , like RonRon, told Harry not to worry about it, that Professor Snapeliked hardly any of the students. “But Professor Snape seemed to really hate me.” “Rubbish!” said Hagrid . “Why should Professor Snape?” Yet Harry couldn’t help thinking that Hagrid didn’t quite meet Harry eyes when Harry said that. “How’s yer brother Charlie?” Hagrid asked Ron. “I liked Ron a lot — great with animals.” Harry wondered if Hagrid had changed the subject on purpose. While Ron told Hagrid all about Charlie’s work with dragons, Harry picked up a piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was a cutting from the Daily Prophet : GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on July, widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witches unknown. Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day. “But we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep your noses out if you know what’s good for you,” said a Gringotts spokesgoblin this afternoon. Harry remembered Ron telling Harry on the train that someone had tried to rob Gringotts , but Ron hadn’t mentioned the date. Hagrid !” said Harry, “that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday! It might’ve been happening while we were there!” There was no doubt about It, Hagrid definitely didn’t meet Harry’s eyes this time. Harry grunted and offered Harry another rock cake. Harry read the story again. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied earlier that same day. Hagrid had emptied vault seven hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying, taking out that grubby little package. Had that been what the thieves were looking for? As Harry and Ron walked back to the main castle for dinner, Harry and Ron pockets weighed down with rock cakes Harry and Ron ’d been too polite to refuse, Harry thought that none of the lessons he’d had so far had given Harry as much to think about as tea with Hagrid . Had Hagrid collected that grubby little package just in time? Where was that grubby little package now? And did Hagrid know something about Snape that Snape didn’t want to tell Harry? THE MIDNIGHT DUEL Harry had never believed Harry would meet a boy Harry hated more than Dudley, but that was before Harry met Draco Malfoy. Still, first-year Gryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn’t have to put up with Malfoy much. Or at least, they didn’t until they spotted a notice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room that made them all groan. Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday — and Gryffindor and Slytherin would be learning together. “Typical,” said Harry darkly. “Just what I always wanted. To make a fool of myself on a broomstick in front of Malfoy.” Harry had been looking forward to learning to fly more than anything else. “You don’t know that you’ll make a fool of yourself,” said Ron reasonably. “Anyway, I know Malfoy’s always going on about how good Malfoy is at Quidditch, but I bet thatSeamus’s all talk.” Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Malfoy certainly did talk about flying a lot. Malfoycomplained loudly about first years never getting on the House Quidditch teams and told long, boastful stories that always seemed to end with Malfoy narrowly escaping Muggles in helicopters. Malfoy wasn’t the only one, though: the way Seamus Finnigan told it, Malfoy’d spent most of Malfoy childhood zooming around the countryside on a broomstick in front of Malfoy. Even Ron would tell anyone who’d listen about the time Ron’d almost hit a hang glider on Charlie’s old broom. Everyone from wizarding families talked about Quidditch constantly. Ron had already had a big argument with Dean Thomas, who shared their dormitory, about soccer. Ron couldn’t see what was exciting about a game with only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Harryhad caught Ron prodding Seamus’s poster of West Ham soccer team, trying to make the players move. Professor Snape had never been on a broomstick in Professor Snape life, because Professor Snape grandmother had never let Professor Snape near one. Privately, Harry felt Harry’d had good reason, because Professor Snape managed to have an extraordinary number of accidents even with both feet on the ground. Hermione Granger was almost as nervous about flying as Professor Snape was. This was something you couldn’t learn by heart out of a book — not that Harry hadn’t tried. At breakfast on Thursday Harry bored them all stupid with flying tips she’d gotten out of a library book called Quidditch Through the Ages. Professor Snape was hanging on to Harry every word, desperate for anything that might help him hang on to him later, but everybody else was very pleased when Hermione ’s lecture was interrupted by the arrival of the mail. Harry hadn’t had a single letter since Hagrid’s note, something that Malfoy had been quick to notice, of course. Charlie’s eagle owl was always bringing Malfoy ’s eagle owl packages of sweets from home, which Harry opened gloatingly at the Slytherin table. A barn owl brought Professor Snape a small package from Professor Snape grandmother. Professor Snape opened a small package from his grandmother excitedly and showed them a glass ball the size of a large marble, which seemed to be full of white smoke. “a small package from his grandmother’s the Remembrall!” Professor Snape explained. “a small package from his grandmother knows I forget things — this tells you if there’s something you’ve forgotten to do. Look, you hold it tight like this and if this turns red — oh ...” Professor Snape face fell, because the Remembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet, “... you’ve forgotten something ...” Professor Snape was trying to remember what Professor Snape’d forgotten when Draco Malfoy, who was passing the Gryffindor table, snatched the Remembrall out of Professor Snape hand. Harry and Ron jumped to Harry and Ron feet. Harry and Ron were half hoping for a reason to fight Malfoy, but Professor McGonagall, who could spot trouble quicker than any teacher in the school, was there in a flash. “What’s going on?” “Malfoy’s got my Remembrall, Professor.” Scowling, Malfoy quickly dropped the Remembrallback on the table. “Just looking,” he said, and he sloped away with Crabbe and Goyle behind he. At three-thirty that afternoon, Harry, Ron, and the other Gryffindors hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for Ron, and the other Gryffindors first flying lesson. It was a clear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under their feet as their marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth, flat lawn on the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest, whose trees were swaying darkly in the distance. the Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty broomsticks lying in neat lines on the ground. Harryhad heard Fred and George Weasley complain about the school brooms, saying that some of Fred and George Weasley started to vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left. Fred and George Weasley teacher, Madam Hooch, arrived. She had short, gray hair, and yellow eyes like a hawk. “Well, what are you all waiting for?” She barked. “Everyone stand by a broomstick. Come on, hurry up.” " Harry glanced down at Harry broom. It was old and some of the twigs stuck out at odd angles. “Stick out your right hand over his broom,” called Madam Hooch at the front, “and say ‘Up!’ ” “UP!” everyone shouted. his broom jumped into Harry hand at once, but his broom was one of the few that did. Hermione Granger’s had simply rolled over on the ground, and Hermione Granger’s hadn’t moved at all. Perhaps brooms, like horses, could tell when you were afraid, thought Harry; there was a quaver in Professor Snape’s voice that said only too clearly that Harry wanted to keep Harry feet on the ground. Madam Hooch then showed them how to mount them brooms without sliding off the end, and walked up and down the rows correcting them grips. Harry and Ron were delighted when Madam Hooch told Malfoy Harry’d been doing Malfoy wrong for years. “Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard,” said Madam Hooch. “Keep their brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle — three — two — ” But Neville, nervous and jumpy and frightened of being left on the ground, pushed off hard before the whistle had touched Madam Hooch’s lips. “Come back, boy!” Madam Hooch shouted, but Professor Snape was rising straight up like a cork shot out of a bottle — twelve feet — twenty feet. Harry saw Harry scared white face look down at the ground falling away, saw Harry gasp, slip sideways off his broom and — WHAM — a thud and a nasty crack and Professor Snape lay facedown on the grass in a heap. Harry broomstick was still rising higher and higher, and started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight. Madam Hooch was bending over Professor Snape, Madam Hooch face as white as Madam Hooch. “Broken wrist,” Harry heard Madam Hooch mutter. “Come on, boy — it’s all right, up you get.” Madam Hooch turned to the rest of the class. “None of you is to move while I take boy to the hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are or you’ll be out of Hogwarts before you can say ‘Quidditch.’ Come on, dear.” Neville, his face tear-streaked, clutching his wrist, hobbled off with Madam Hooch, who had her arm around his. No sooner were out of earshot than Malfoy burst into laughter. “Did you see his face, the great lump?” the Slytherins joined in. “Shut up, Malfoy,” snapped Parvati Patil. “Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?” said Pansy Parkinson, a hard-faced Slytherin girl. “Never thought you’d like fat little crybabies, Parvati.” “Look!” said Malfoy, darting forward and snatching something out of the grass. “It’s that stupid thing Longbottom’s gran sent It’s that stupid thing .” the Remembrall glittered in the sun as It’s that stupid thing held the Remembrall up. “Give that here, Malfoy,” said Harry quietly. Everyone stopped talking to watch. Malfoy smiled nastily. “I think I’ll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find — how about — up a tree?” “Give it here!” Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt onto Harry broomstick and taken off. Harry hadn’t been lying, Harry could fly well. Hovering level with the topmost branches of an oak Harry called, “Come and get Hovering level with the topmost branches of an oak he called, Potter!” Harry grabbed his broom. “iVo!” shouted Hermione Granger. “Madam Hooch told us not to move — you’ll get us all into trouble.” Harry ignored Madam Hooch. Blood was pounding in Harry ears. Harry mounted his broom and kicked hard against the ground and up, up Harry soared; air rushed through Harry hair, and Harry robes whipped out behind Harry — and in a rush of fierce joy Harry realized Harry’d found something Harry could do without being taught — this was easy, this was wonderful. Harry pulled Harry up a little to take his broomstick even higher, and heard screams and gasps of girls back on the ground and an admiring whoop from Ron. Harry turned Harry sharply to face Malfoy in midair. Malfoy looked stunned. “Give it here,” Harry called, “or I’ll knock you off his broom!” “Oh, yeah?” said Malfoy, trying to sneer, but looking worried. Harry knew, somehow, what to do. Harry leaned forward and grasped his broom tightly in both hands, and his broom shot toward Malfoy like a javelin. Malfoy only just got out of the way in time; Harry made a sharp about- face and held the broom steady. A few people below were clapping. “No Crabbe and Goyle up here to save your neck, Malfoy,” Harry called. The same thought seemed to have struck Malfoy. “Catch it if you can, then!” Harry shouted, and Harry threw the glass ball high into the air and streaked back toward the ground. Harry saw, as though in slow motion, the glass ball high into the air rise up in the air and then start to fall. Harry leaned forward and pointed his broom handle down — next second Harry was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball — wind whistled in Harry ears, mingled with the screams of people watching — Harry stretched out Harry hand — a foot from the ground Harry caught a foot, just in time to pull his broom straight, and Harry toppled gently onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in Harry fist. “HARRY POTTER!” Harry heart sank faster than Harry’d just dived. Professor McGonagall was running toward them. Professor McGonagall got to Professor McGonagall feet, trembling. “Never — in all my time at Hogwarts — ” Professor McGonagall was almost speechless with shock, and Professor McGonagall glasses flashed furiously, “ — how dare you — might have broken your neck — ” “It wasn’t Professor McGonagall fault, Professor — ” “Be quiet, Parvati Patil — ” “But Malfoy — ” “That’s enough, George Weasley. Harry Potter, follow me, now.” Harry caught sight of Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle’s triumphant faces as Harry left, walking numbly in Hermione Granger’s wake as Hermione Granger’s strode toward the castle. Hermione Granger’s was going to be expelled, Hermione Granger’s just knew it. Hermione Granger’s wanted to say something to defend Hermione Granger’s, but there seemed to be something wrong with Hermione Granger’s voice. Professor McGonagall was sweeping along without even looking at Professor McGonagall; Professor McGonagall had to jog to keep up. Now Professor McGonagall’d done it. Professor McGonagall hadn’t even lasted two weeks. He’d be packing Professor McGonagall bags in ten minutes. What would the Dursleys say when Professor McGonagall turned up on the doorstep? Up the front steps, up the marble staircase inside, and still Professor McGonagall Professor McGonagall didn’t say a word to Professor McGonagall. Hermione Granger’s wrenched open doors and marched along corridors with Harry trotting miserably behind Hermione Granger’s. Maybe Hermione Granger’s was taking Professor McGonagall to Dumbledore. Professor McGonagall thought of Hagrid, expelled but allowed to stay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps Professor McGonagall could be Hermione Granger’s assistant. Professor McGonagall stomach twisted as Professor McGonagall imagined it, watching Ronand the others becoming wizards while Professor McGonagall stumped around the grounds carrying Hagrid’s bag. Professor McGonagall stopped outside a classroom. Professor McGonagall opened the door and poked Professor McGonagall head inside. “Excuse me, Professor Flitwick, could I borrow Wood for a moment?Wood ? thought Harry, bewildered; was Wood a cane Professor McGonagall was going to use on Harry? But Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year boy who came out of Professor Flitwick’s class looking confused. “Follow me, you two,” said Professor McGonagall, and they marched on up the corridor, Wood looking curiously at Harry. “In here.” Professor McGonagall Professor McGonagall pointed they into a classroom that was empty except for Peeves, who was busy writing rude words on the blackboard. “Out, Peeves!” Professor McGonagall barked. Peeves threw the chalk into a bin, which clanged loudly, and Peeves swooped out cursing. Professor McGonagall slammed the door behind Professor McGonagall and turned to face the two boys. Harry Potter, this is Wood . Wood — I’ve found you a Seeker.” Wood ’s expression changed from puzzlement to delight. “Are you serious, Professor ?” “Absolutely,” said Professor McGonagall Professor McGonagall crisply. “The boy’s a natural. I’ve never seen anything like The boy’s a natural. Was that your first time on a broomstick, Harry Potter?” Harry nodded silently. Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on, but Harry didn’t seem to be being expelled, and some of the feeling started coming back to Harry legs. “Harry caught that thing in Harry hand after a fifty-foot dive,” Professor McGonagall told Wood . “Didn’t even scratch Professor McGonagall. Charlie Weasley couldn’t have done it.” Wood was now looking as though all Charlie Weasley dreams had come true at once. “Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Harry Potter?” Charlie Weasley asked excitedly. “Wood’s captain of the Gryffindor team,” Professor McGonagall Professor McGonagall explained. “Charlie Weasley’s just the build for a Seeker, too,” said Wood, now walking around Harry and staring at Harry. “Light — speedy — we’ll have to get Harry a decent broom, Professor — a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven, I’d say.” “I shall speak to Dumbledore and see if we can’t bend the first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need a better team than last year. Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn’t look Severus Snape in the face for weeks. ...” Professor McGonagall peered sternly over Professor McGonagall glasses at Harry. “I want to hear you’re training hard, Harry Potter, or I may change my mind about punishing you.” Then Professor McGonagall suddenly smiled. “Your father would have been proud,” Professor McGonagall said. “Your father was an excellent Quidditch player himself.” “You’re joking.” It was dinnertime. Harry had just finished telling Ronwhat had happened when Harry’d left the grounds with Professor McGonagall. Ron had a piece of steak and kidney pie halfway to Ron mouth, but Ron’d forgotten all about a piece of steak. “Seeker?” Ron said. “But first years never — you must be the youngest House player in about — ” “ — a century,” said Harry, shoveling pie into his mouth. Harry felt particularly hungry after the excitement of the afternoon. “Wood told me.” Ron was so amazed, so impressed, Ron just sat and gaped at Harry. “I start training next week,” said Harry. “Only don’t tell anyone, Wood wants to keep Wood a secret.” Fred and George Weasley now came into the hall, spotted Harry, and hurried over. “Well done,” said George in a low voice. “Wood told Fred and George Weasley. Fred and George Weasley’re on the Gryffindor team too — Beaters.” “I tell you, Fred and George Weasley’re going to win that Quidditch Cup for sure this year,” said Fred. “Fred and George Weasley haven’t won since Charlie Weasley left, but this year’s team is going to be brilliant. You must be good, Harry, Wood was almost skipping when Wood told Fred and George Weasley.” “Anyway, Fred and George Weasley’ve got to go, Wood reckons Wood The boy’s a naturalfound a new secret passageway out of the school.” “Bet it’s that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found in we first week. See you.” Fred and George Weasley George had hardly disappeared when someone far less welcome turned up: Malfoy, flanked by Crabbe and Goyle. “Having a last meal, Harry Potter? When are you getting the train back to the Muggles?” “You’re a lot braver now that you’re back on the ground and you’ve got your little friends with you,” said Harry coolly. There was of course nothing at all little about Crabbe and Goyle, but as the High Table was full of teachers, neither of teachers could do more than crack teachers knuckles and scowl. “I’d take you on anytime on my own,” said Malfoy. “Tonight, if you want. Wizard’s duel. Wands only — no contact. What’s the matter? Never heard of a Wizard’s duel before, I suppose?” “Of course he has,” said Ron, wheeling around. “I’m he second, who’s yours?” Malfoy looked at Crabbe and Goyle, sizing Crabbe and Goyle up. “Crabbe,” he said. “Midnight all right? Well meet you in the trophy room; that’s always unlocked.” When Malfoy had gone, Ron and Harry looked at each other. “What is a wizard’s duel?” said Harry. “And what do you mean, you’re my second?” “Well, a second’s there to take over if you die,” said Ron casually, getting started at last on Ron cold pie. Catching the look on Harry’s face, Harry added quickly, “But people only die in proper duels, you know, with real wizards. The most you and Malfoy’ll be able to do is send sparks at each other. Neither of you knows enough magic to do any real damage. I bet Harry expected you to refuse, anyway.” “And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?” “Throw it away and punch ” on the nose,” Ronsuggested. “Excuse me.” They both looked up. It was Hermione Granger. “Can’t a person eat in peace in this place?” said Ron. Hermione ignored Ron and spoke to Harry. “I couldn’t help overhearing what you and Malfoywere saying — ” “Bet you could,” Ron muttered. “ — and you mustn’t go wandering around the school at night, think of the points you’ll lose Gryffindor if you’re caught, and you’re bound to be. It’s really very selfish of you.” “And It’s really none of your business,” said Harry. “Good-bye,” said Ron. All the same, it wasn’t what you’d call the perfect end to the day, Harry thought, as Harry lay awake much later listening to Dean and Seamus falling asleep (Neville wasn’t back from the hospital wing). Ron had spent all evening giving Ron advice such as “If Ron tries to curse you, you’d better dodge he tries to curse you, because I can’t remember how to block he tries to curse you.” There was a very good chance he tries to curse you were going to get caught by Filch or Mrs. Norris, and Harry felt Harry was pushing Harry luck, breaking another school rule today. On the other hand, Malfoy’s sneering face kept looming up out of the darkness — this was his big chance to beat Malfoy face-to-face. his couldn’t miss it. “Half-past eleven,” Ron muttered at last, “we’d better go.” They pulled on They bathrobes, picked up They wands, and crept across the tower room, down the spiral staircase, and into the Gryffindor common room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace, turning all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. They had almost reached the portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest They, “I can’t believe you’re going to do this, Harry.” A lamp flickered on. A lamp was Hermione Granger, wearing a pink bathrobe and a frown. “You!” said Ron furiously. “Go back to bed!” “I almost told your brother,” Hermione snapped, “Percy — your brother’s a prefect, your brother’d put a stop to this.” Harry couldn’t believe anyone could be so interfering. “Come on,” Harry said to Ron. Harry pushed open the portrait of the Fat Lady and climbed through the portrait hole . Hermione wasn’t going to give up that easily. Hermione followed Ron through the portrait hole , hissing at them like an angry goose. “Don’t you care about Gryffindor, do you only care about yourselves, / don’t want Slytherin to win the House Cup, and you’ll lose all the points I got from Professor McGonagall for knowing about Switching Spells.” “Go away.” “All right, but I warned you, you just remember what I said when you’re on the train home tomorrow, you’re so — ” But what they were, they didn’t find out. Hermionehad turned to the portrait of the Fat Lady the Fat Lady to get back inside and found Hermione facing an empty painting. the Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Hermione was locked out of Gryffindor Tower. “Now what am I going to do?” the Fat Lady asked shrilly. “That’s your problem,” said Ron. “We’ve got to go, We’re going to be late.” They hadn’t even reached the end of the corridor when Hermione caught up with They. “I’m coming with the Fat Lady,” the Fat Lady said. “You are not.” “D’you think I’m going to stand out here and wait for Filch to catch me? If Filch finds all three of us I’ll tell Filch the truth, that I was trying to stop you, and you can back me up.” “You’ve got some nerve — ” said Ron loudly. “Shut up, both of you!” said Harry sharply. “I heard something.” It was a sort of snuffling. “Mrs. Norris?” breathed Ron, squinting through the dark. It wasn’t Mrs. Norris. It was Neville . Neville was curled up on the floor, fast asleep, but jerked suddenly awake as they crept nearer. “Thank goodness you found me! I’ve been out here for hours, I couldn’t remember the new password to get in to bed.” “Keep your voice down, Neville . The password’s ‘Pig snout’ but Pig won’t help you now, the Fat Lady’s gone off somewhere.” “How’s your arm?” said Harry. “Fine,” said Neville , showing them. “Madam Pomfrey mended it in about a minute.” “Good — well, look, Neville , we’ve got to be somewhere, we’ll see you later — ” “Don’t leave me!” said Neville , scrambling to Neville feet, “I don’t want to stay here alone, the Fat Lady’sbeen past twice already.” Ron looked at Ron watch and then glared furiously at Hermione and Neville. “If either of you get us caught, I’ll never rest until I’ve learned that Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us about, and used it on you.” Hermione opened Hermione mouth, perhaps to tell Ronexactly how to use the Curse of the Bogies, but Harryhissed at Hermione to be quiet and beckoned them all forward. them all flitted along corridors striped with bars of moonlight from the high windows. At every turn Harryexpected to run into Filch or Mrs. Norris, but them all were lucky. them all sped up a staircase to the third floor and tiptoed toward the trophy room. Malfoy and Crabbe weren’t there yet. The crystal trophy cases glimmered where the moonlight caught Malfoy and Crabbe. Cups, shields, plates, and statues winked silver and gold in the darkness. Malfoy and Crabbe edged along the walls, keeping Malfoy and Crabbe eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Harry took out Harry wand in case Malfoy leapt in and started at once. The minutes crept by. “the Fat Lady’s, maybe Harry’s chickened out,” Ron whispered. Then a noise in the room made them jump. Harry had only just raised his wand when them heard someone speak — and it wasn’t Malfoy. “Sniff around, my sweet, “Sniff around, my sweet might be lurking in a corner.” It was Filch speaking to Mrs. Norris?”. Horror-struck, Harry waved madly at the other three to follow Harry as quickly as possible; “Sniff around, my sweet scurried silently toward the door, away from the Fat Lady’s voice. the Fat Lady’s robes had barely whipped round a corner when Neville’s robes heard Filch enter the trophy room. “Neville’s robes’re in here somewhere,” Neville’s robes heard Harry mutter, “probably hiding.” “This way!” Harry mouthed to the others and, petrified, the others began to creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. the others could hear Filch getting nearer. Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke into a run — Neville tripped, grabbed Ronaround the waist, and the pair of Neville’s robes toppled right into a suit of armor. The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle. “RUN!” Harry yelled, and the four of Neville’s robes sprinted down a long gallery full of suits of armor, not looking back to see whether Filch was following — they swung around the doorpost and galloped down one corridor then another, Harry in the lead, without any idea where they were or where they were going — they ripped through a tapestry and found they in a hidden passageway, hurtled along a hidden passageway and came out near they Charms classroom, which they knew was miles from the trophy room. “I think we’ve lost him,” Harry panted, leaning against the cold wall and wiping him forehead. Neville was bent double, wheezing and spluttering. “I — told — you,” Hermione gasped, clutching at the stitch in her chest, “I — told — you.” “We’ve got to get back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Ron, “quickly as possible.” Malfoy tricked you,” Hermione said to Harry. “You realize that, don’t you? Harry was never going to meet you Filch knew someone was going to be in the trophy room, Malfoy must have tipped someone off.” Harry thought Harry was probably right, but Harry wasn’t going to tell Harry that. “Let’s go.” It wasn’t going to be that simple. They hadn’t gone more than a dozen paces when a doorknob rattled and something came shooting out of a classroom in front of They. It was Peeves. Harry caught sight of They and gave a squeal of delight. “Shut up, Peeves — please — you’ll get us thrown out.” Peeves cackled. “Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut, tut, Tut. Naughty, naughty, you’ll get caughty.” “Not if you don’t give us away, Peeves, please.” “Should tell Filch, I should,” said Peeves in a sanity voice, but Peeves eyes glittered wickedly. “It’s for your own good, you know.” “Get out of the way,” snapped Ron, taking a swipe at Peeves — this was a big mistake. “STUDENTS OUT OF BED!” Peeves bellowed, “STUDENTS OUT OF BED DOWN THE CHARMS CORRIDOR!” Ducking under Peeves, they ran for they lives, right to the end of the corridor where they slammed into a door — and it was locked. “This is it!” Ron moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door, “We’re done for! This is the end!” they could hear footsteps, Filch running as fast as Filch could toward the Fat Lady’s shouts. “Oh, move over,” Hermione snarled. She grabbed Harry’s wand, tapped the lock, and whispered, “Alohomora\” the lock clicked and the door swung open — they piled through the lock, shut the lock quickly, and pressed they ears against the lock, listening. “Which way did they go, Peeves?” Filch was saying. “Quick, tell me.” “Say ‘please.’ ” “Don’t mess with me, Peeves, now where did they go?” “Shan’t say nothing if you don’t say please,” said Peeves in his annoying singsong voice. “All right — please.” “NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn’t say nothing if you didn’t say please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!” And they heard the sound of Peeves whooshing away and Filchcursing in rage. “ thinks the door is locked,” Harry whispered. “I think well be okay — get off Neville !” For Neville had been tugging on the sleeve of Harry’s bathrobe for the last minute. “What?” Harry turned around — and saw, quite clearly, what. For a moment, Harry was sure Harry’d walked into a nightmare — this was too much, on top of everything that had happened so far. They weren’t in a room, as Harry had supposed. They were in a corridor. The forbidden corridor on the third floor. And now They knew why The forbidden corridor on the third floor was forbidden. They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog, a dog that filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. The forbidden corridor on the third floor had three heads. Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching and quivering in They direction; three drooling mouths, saliva hanging in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs. It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at They, and Harry knew that the only reason They weren’t already dead was that They sudden appearance had taken it by surprise, but it was quickly getting over that, there was no mistaking what those thunderous growls meant. Harry groped for the doorknob — between Filch and death, Harry’d take Filch. They fell backward Harry Harry slammed the door shut, and They ran, They almost flew, back down a corridor. Filch must have hurried off to look for They somewhere else, because They didn’t see Filch anywhere, but they did hardly cared — all they did wanted to do was put as much space as possible between they did and that monster. they did didn’t stop running until they did reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor. “Where on earth have you all been?” the Fat Lady asked, looking at their bathrobes hanging off their shoulders and their flushed, sweaty faces. “Never mind that — pig snout, pig snout,” panted Harry, and the portrait swung forward. They scrambled into the common room and collapsed, trembling, into armchairs. It was a while before any of They said anything. Neville , indeed, looked as if Neville ’d never speak again. “What do they think they’re doing, keeping a thing like that locked up in a school?” said Ron finally. “If any dog needs exercise, that one does.” Hermione had got both Hermione breath and Hermione bad temper back again. “You don’t use your eyes, any of you, do you?” Hermione snapped. “Didn’t you see what it was standing on?” “The floor?” Harry suggested. “I wasn’t looking at it feet, I was too busy with it .” “No, not the floor. not the floor was standing on a trapdoor. not the floorthe Fat Lady’sobviously guarding something.” Hermione stood up, glaring at them. “I hope you’re pleased with yourselves. We could all have been killed — or worse, expelled. Now, if you don’t mind, I’m going to bed.” Ron stared after Hermione, Ron mouth open. “No, We don’t mind,” Ron said. “You’d think We dragged Hermione along, wouldn’t you?” But Hermione had given Harry something else to think about as Ron climbed back into bed. The dog was guarding something. . . . What had Hagrid said? Gringotts was the safest place in the world for something you wanted to hide — except perhaps Hogwarts. Gringotts looked as though Harry had found out where the grubby little package from vault seven hundred and thirteen was. HALLOWEEN Malfoy couldn’t believe HALLOWEEN Malfoy eyes when HALLOWEEN Malfoy saw that Harry and Ron were still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectly cheerful. Indeed, by the next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting the three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and Harry and Ron were quite keen to have another one. In the meantime, Harry filled Ron in about the package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, and Harry and Ron spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy protection. “It’s either really valuable or really dangerous,” said Ron. “Or both,” said Harry. But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it was about two inches long, they didn’t have much chance of guessing what it was without further clues. Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Neither Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest interest in what lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor. All Neville cared about was never going near The dog again. Hermione was now refusing to speak to Harry and Ron, but Hermione was such a bossy know-it-all that Harry and Ron saw this as an added bonus. All Harry and Ron really wanted now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and to Harry and Ron great delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail about a week later. As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, everyone’s attention was caught at once by a long, thin package carried by six large screech owls. Harrywas just as interested as everyone else to see what was in this large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped this large parcel right in front of Harry, knocking Harry bacon to the third floor. the owls had hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top of this large parcel. Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said: DO NOT OPEN this large parcel AT THE TABLE. this large parcel contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a broomstick or the owls’ll all want one. Oliver Wood will meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven o’clock for your first training session. Harry Harry had difficulty hiding Harry glee as Harry handed the note to Ron to read. “A Nimbus Two Thousand!” Ron moaned enviously. “I’ve never even touched one.” They left the Great Hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private before They first class, but halfway across the entrance hall They found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. HALLOWEEN Malfoy seized the package from Harry and felt the package from Harry. “That’s a broomstick,” That’s a broomstick said, throwing the package from Harry back to Harry Harry with a mixture of jealousy and spite on Harry face. “You’ll be in for it this time, Harry Potter, first years aren’t allowed Harry Potter.” Ron couldn’t resist it. “It’s not any old broomstick,” It’s not any old broomstick said, “It’s a Nimbus Two Thousand. What did you say you’ve got at home, Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?” Ron grinned at Harry. “Comets look flashy, but Comets’re not in the same league as the Nimbus.” “What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn’t afford half the handle,” HALLOWEEN Malfoy snapped back. “I suppose you and your brothers have to save up twig by twig.” Before Ron could answer, Professor Flitwick appeared at HALLOWEEN Malfoy’s elbow. “Not arguing, I hope, boys?” Ron squeaked. “Potters been sent a broomstick, Professor,” said HALLOWEEN Malfoy quickly. “Yes, yes, that’s right,” said Professor Flitwick, beaming at Harry. “Professor Flitwick told me all about the special circumstances, Harry Potter. And what model is it?” “A Nimbus Two Thousand, sir,” said Harry, fighting not to laugh at the look of horror on Malfoy’s face. “And it’s really thanks to HALLOWEEN Malfoy here that I’ve got it,” HALLOWEEN Malfoy added. Harry and Ron headed upstairs, smothering Harry and Ron laughter at HALLOWEEN Malfoy obvious rage and confusion. “Well, it’s true,” Harry chortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase, “If Harry hadn’t stolen Neville’s Remembrall I wouldn’t be on the team. ...” “So I suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking rules?” came an angry voice from just behind them. Hermione was stomping up the stairs, looking disapprovingly at the package from Harry in Harry’s hand. “I thought you weren’t speaking to us?” said Harry. “Yes, don’t stop now,” said Ron, “it’s doing us so much good.” Hermione marched away with her nose in the air. Harry had a lot of trouble keeping Harry mind on Harry lessons that day. It kept wandering up to the dormitory where Harry new broomstick was lying under Harry bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where Harry’d be learning to play that night. Harry bolted Harry dinner that evening without noticing what Harry was eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrap the Nimbus Two Thousand at last. “Wow,” Ron sighed, as his new broomstick rolled onto Harry’s bedspread. Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long tail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold near the top. As seven o’clock drew nearer, Harry left the castle and set off in the dusk toward the Quidditch field. He’d never been inside the stadium before. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the Quidditch field so that the spectators were high enough to see what was going on. At either end of the Quidditch field were three golden poles with hoops on the end. They reminded Harrythe little plastic sticks Muggle children blew bubbles through, except that They were fifty feet high. Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Harrymounted his new broomstick and kicked off from the ground. What a feeling — Harry swooped in and out of the goal posts and then sped up and down the Quidditch field. The Nimbus Two Thousand turned wherever Harry wanted at Harry lightest touch. “Hey, Harry Potter, come down!” Oliver Wood had arrived. Oliver Wood was carrying a large wooden crate under Oliver Wood arm. Harry landed next to Oliver Wood. “Very nice,” said Wood, Oliver Wood eyes glinting. “I see what McGonagall meant ... you really are a natural. I’m just going to teach you the rules this evening, then you’ll be joining team practice three times a week.” McGonagall opened a large wooden crate. Inside were four different-sized balls. “Right,” said Oliver Wood. “Now, Quidditch is easy enough to understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. There are seven players on each side. Three of them are called Chasers.” “Three Chasers,” Harry repeated, as Oliver Wood took out a bright red ball about the size of a soccer ball. “This ball’s called the Quaffle,” said Oliver Wood. “The Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get the Quaffle through one of the hoops to score a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the hoops. Follow me?” “The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put the Quaffle through the hoops to score,” Harry recited. “So — that’s sort of like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn’t it?” “What’s basketball?” said Oliver Wood curiously. “Never mind,” said Harry quickly. “Now, there’s another player on each side who’s called the Keeper — I’m Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoops and stop the other team from scoring.” “Three Chasers, one Keeper,” said Harry, who was determined to remember it all. “And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are they for?” He pointed at the three balls left inside the box. “I’ll show you now,” said Oliver Wood. “Take this.” He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat. “I’m going to show you what the Bludgers do,” Oliver Woodsaid. “These two are the Bludgers.” He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and slightly smaller than the Quaffle. Harry noticed that they seemed to be straining to escape the straps holding they inside the box. “Stand back,” Wood warned Harry. Harry bent down and freed one of the Bludgers. At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at Harry’s face. Harry swung at Harry’s face with the bat to stop Harry’s face from breaking Harry nose, and sent Harry’s face zigzagging away into the air — Harry’s face zoomed around their heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of Harry’s face and managed to pin Harry’s face to the ground. “See?” Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into a large wooden crate and strapping a large wooden crate down safely. “The Bludgers rocket around, trying to knock players off their brooms. That’s why you have two Beaters on each team — the Weasley twins are ours — it’s the Weasley twinsjob to protect the Weasley twins side from the Bludgers and try and knock the Weasley twins toward the other team. So — think you’ve got all that?” “Three The Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the goal posts; the Beaters keep The Bludgers away from the Beaters ,” Harry reeled off. “Very good,” said Oliver Wood. “Er — have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?” Harryasked, hoping Harry sounded offhand. “Never at Hogwarts. We’ve had a couple of broken jaws but nothing worse than that. Now, the last member of the team is the Seeker. That’s you. And you don’t have to worry about the Quaffle or The Bludgers — ” “ — unless they crack my head open.” “Don’t worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers — I mean, they’re like a pair of the Bludgers.” Oliver Wood reached into a large wooden crate and took out the fourth and last ball. Compared with the Quaffle and The Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size of a large walnut. it was bright gold and had little fluttering silver wings. “This,” said Oliver Wood, “is the Golden Snitch, and This’s the most important ball of the lot. This’s very hard to catch because This’s so fast and difficult to see. This’s the Seeker’s job to catch This. You’ve got to weave in and out of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get it before the other team’s Seeker, because whichever Seeker catches the Golden Snitch wins the Golden Snitch team an extra hundred and fifty points, so the Golden Snitch nearly always win. That’s why Seekers get fouled so much. A game of Quidditch only ends when the Golden Snitch is caught, so the Golden Snitch can go on for ages — I think the record is three months, the Golden Snitch had to keep bringing on substitutes so the players could get some sleep. “Well, that’s it — any questions?” Harry shook Harry head. Harry understood what Harry had to do all right, it was doing it that was going to be the problem. “We won’t practice with the Golden Snitch yet,” said Wood, carefully shutting Wood back inside a large wooden crate, “Wood’s too dark, we might lose Wood. Let’s try you out with a few of these.” Harry pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of Harry pocket and a few minutes later, Harry and Harry were up in the air, Oliver Wood throwing the golf balls as hard as Harry could in every direction for Harry to catch. Harry didn’t miss a single one, and Oliver Wood was delighted. After half an hour, night had really fallen and he and Harry couldn’t carry on. “That Quidditch Cup’ll have our name on it this year,” said Oliver Wood happily as Oliver Wood trudged back up to the castle. “I wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and Charlie Weasley could have played for England if Charlie Weasley hadn’t gone off chasing dragons.” Perhaps it was because Charlie Weasley was now so busy, what with Quidditch practice three evenings a week on top of all Charlie Weasley homework, but Harry could hardly believe it when Charlie Weasley realized that Charlie Weasley’d already been at Hogwarts two months. the castle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. Charlie Weasley lessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they had mastered the basics. On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of baking pumpkin wafting through the corridors. Even better, Professor Flitwick announced in Charms that Professor Flitwick thought they were ready to start making objects fly, something they had all been dying to try since they’d seen Professor Flitwick make Neville’s toad zoom around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put the class into pairs to practice. Harry’s partner was Seamus Finnigan (which was a relief, because Neville had been trying to catch Neville eye). Neville , however, was to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to tell whether Neville or Hermione was angrier about this. Hermione hadn’t spoken to either of Ron or Hermione was angrier about this since the day Harry’s broomstick had arrived. “Now, don’t forget that nice wrist movement we’ve been practicing!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, perched on top of Professor Flitwick pile of books as usual. “Swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the magic words properly is very important, too — never forget Wizard Baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on himself chest.” It was very difficult. Harry and Seamus swished and flicked, but the feather Harry and Seamus were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the desktop. Seamus got so impatient that himself prodded the desktop with himself wand and set fire to the desktop — Harry had to put the desktop out with Harry hat. Neville , at the next table, wasn’t having much more luck. “Wingardium Leviosal” Wingardium Leviosal shouted, waving Wingardium Leviosal long arms like a windmill. “You’re saying it wrong,” Harry heard Hermione snap. “it’s Wing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ nice and long.” “You do it, then, if you’re so clever,” Neville snarled. Hermione rolled up the sleeves of Hermione gown, flicked his wand, and said, “Wingardium LeviosaV’ “Wingardium LeviosaV rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above “Wingardium LeviosaV heads. “Oh, well done!” cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. “Everyone see here, It’s done it!” Neville was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. “It’s no wonder no one can stand her,” Neville said to Harry Harry as Harry pushed Harry way into the crowded corridor, “Harry’s a nightmare, honestly.” Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past Harry. It was Hermione. Harry caught a glimpse of Harry face — and was startled to see that Harry was in tears. “I think Harry heard you.” “So?” said Neville , but Neville looked a bit uncomfortable. “Harry must’ve noticed Harry’s got no friends.” Hermione didn’t turn up for the next class and wasn’t seen all afternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast, Harry and Neville overheard Parvati Patil telling Harry friend Lavender that Hermione was crying in the girls’ bathroom and wanted to be left alone. Neville looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later the girls had entered the Great Hall, where the Halloween decorations put Hermione out of the girls minds. A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling while a thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds, making the candles in the pumpkins stutter. the Halloween feast appeared suddenly on the golden plates, as the Halloween feast had at the start-of-term banquet. Harry was just helping Harry to a baked potato when Professor Quirrell came sprinting into the Great Hall, Harry turban askew and terror on Harry face. Everyone stared as Harry reached Professor Dumbledore’s chair, slumped against the table, and gasped, “Troll — in the dungeons — thought you ought to know.” Harry then sank to the floor in a dead faint. There was an uproar. an uproar took several purple firecrackers exploding from the end of Professor Dumbledore’s wand to bring silence. “Prefects,” “Prefects rumbled, “lead your Houses back to the dormitories immediately!” Percy was in Percy element. “Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years coming through! Excuse me, I’m a prefect!” “How could a troll get in?” Harry asked as a troll climbed the stairs. “Don’t ask me, a troll’re supposed to be really stupid,” said Neville . “Maybe Peeves let Peeves in for a Halloween joke.” They passed different groups of people hurrying in different directions. As They jostled They way through a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Harry suddenly grabbed Ron’s arm. “I’ve just thought Hermione.” “What about Hermione?” “Hermione doesn’t know about the troll.” Neville bit Neville lip. “Oh, all right,” Neville snapped. “But Percy’d better not see us.” Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way, slipped down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls’ bathroom. they had just turned the corner when they heard quick footsteps behind they. “Percy!” hissed Neville , pulling Harry behind a large stone griffin. Peering around a large stone griffin, however, “Percy!” saw not Percy but Snape. Percy crossed a deserted side corridor and disappeared from view. “What’s Percy doing?” Harry whispered. “Why isn’t Percy down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers?” “Search me.” Quietly as possible, Quietly crept along the next corridor after Snape ’s fading footsteps. “Percy’s heading for the third floor,” Harry said, but Neville held up Percy hand. “Can you smell something?” Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached Harry nostrils, a mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean. And then they heard no one — a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Neville pointed — at the end of a passage to the left, something huge was moving toward they. they shrank into the shadows and watched as the shadows emerged into a patch of moonlight. the shadows was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, the shadows skin was a dull, granite gray, the shadows great lumpy body like a boulder with the shadows small bald head perched on top like a coconut. the shadows had short legs thick as tree trunks with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from the shadows was incredible. The smell coming from it was holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the third floor because The smell coming from it arms were so long. the troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. the troll waggled the troll long ears, making up the troll tiny mind, then slouched slowly into the room. “The key’s in the lock,” Harry muttered. “We could lock the troll in.” “Good idea,” said Neville nervously. the troll edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn’t about to come out of the troll. With one great leap, Harry managed to grab the key, slam the door, and lock the key. “Yes!” Flushed with the troll victory, the troll started to run back up the passage, but as the troll reached the corner the troll heard something that made the troll hearts stop — a high, petrified scream — and it was coming from the chamber they’d just chained up. “Oh, no,” said Neville , pale as the Bloody Baron. “It’s the girls’ bathroom!” Harry gasped. “ Hermionel” Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron said together. It was the last thing Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron wanted to do, but what choice did Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron have? Wheeling around, Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron sprinted back to the door and turned the key, fumbling in Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron panic. Harry pulled the door open and Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron ran inside. Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if Granger was about to faint. the trollwas advancing on Granger, knocking the sinks off the walls as the troll went. “Confuse it!” Harry said desperately to Neville , and, seizing a tap, Harry threw it as hard as Harry could against the wall. the troll stopped a few feet from Hermione. the troll lumbered around, blinking stupidly, to see what had made the noise. the troll mean little eyes saw Harry. the troll hesitated, then made for Harry instead, lifting the troll club as the troll went. “Oy, pea-brain!” yelled Neville from the other side of the chamber, and Neville threw a metal pipe at a metal pipe. the trolldidn’t even seem to notice a metal pipe hitting a metal pipe shoulder, but a metal pipe heard the yell and paused again, turning a metal pipe ugly snout toward Neville instead, giving Harry time to run around a metal pipe. “Come on, run, run\” Harry yelled at Hermione, trying to pull Hermione toward the door, but Hermione couldn’t move, Hermione was still flat against the wall, Hermione mouth open with terror. The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. the troll berserk roared again and started toward Neville , who was nearest and had no way to escape. Harry then did something that was both very brave and very stupid: Harry took a great running jump and managed to fasten Harry arms around the troll’s neck from behind. the troll couldn’t feel Harry hanging there, but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up even a troll nose, and Harry’s wand had still been in Harry hand when Harry’d jumped — it had gone straight up one of the troll’s nostrils. Howling with pain, even a troll twisted and flailed it club, with Harry clinging on for dear life; any second, even a troll was going to rip Harry off or catch Harry a terrible blow with its club. Hermione had sunk to the third floor in fright; Neville pulled out Neville own wand — not knowing what Neville was going to do Neville heard Neville cry the first spell that came into Neville head: “Wingardium Leviosal” its club flew suddenly out of the troll’s hand, rose high, high up into the air, turned slowly over — and dropped, with a sickening crack, onto — owner’s head. even a troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on even a troll face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble. Harry got to Harry feet. Harry was shaking and out of breath. Neville was standing there with his own wand still raised, staring at what Neville had done. It was Hermione who spoke first. “Is it — dead?” “I don’t think so,” said Harry, “I think it’s just been knocked out.” Neville bent down and pulled his own wand out of the troll’s nose. his own wand was covered in what looked like lumpy gray glue. “Urgh — troll boogers.” Neville wiped it on the troll’s trousers. A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of them look up. them hadn’t realized what a racket them had been making, but of course, someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll’s roars. A moment later, Professor McGonagall had come bursting into the whole room , closely followed by Snape, with Professor Quirrell bringing up the rear. Professor Quirrell took one look at even a troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quickly down on a toilet, clutching his heart. Snape bent over even a troll. Professor McGonagall was looking at Neville and Harry. Harry had never seen Professor McGonagall look so angry. Professor McGonagall lips were white. Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Harry’s mind. “What on earth were you thinking of?” said Professor McGonagall, with cold fury in Professor voice. Harry looked at Ron, who was still standing with his own wand in the air. “You’re lucky you weren’t killed. Why aren’t you in your dormitory? Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked at the third floor. Harry wished Neville would put his own wand down. Then a small voice came out of the shadows. “Please, Professor McGonagall — they were looking for me.” “Miss Granger!” Hermione had managed to get to his feet at last. “I went looking for even a troll because I — I thought I could deal with even a troll on my own — you know, because I’ve read all about even a troll.” Neville dropped his own wand. Granger, telling a downright lie to a teacher? “If even a troll hadn’t found me, I’d be dead now. Harrystuck his own wand up Harry nose and Neville knocked his own wand out with his own wand own club. They didn’t have time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when They arrived.” Harry and Neville tried to look as though this story wasn’t new to Harry and Ron. “Well — in that case ...” said Professor McGonagall, staring at the three of Harry and Ron, “Miss Granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of tackling a mountain troll on your own?” Hermione hung Hermione head. Harry was speechless. Hermione was the last person to do anything against the rules, and here Hermione was, pretending Hermione had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had started handing out sweets. “Miss Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this,” said Professor McGonagall . “I’m very disappointed in Professor McGonagall . If you’re not hurt at all, you’d better get off to Gryffindor Tower. Students are finishing the feast in Students Houses.” Hermione left. Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron. “Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first years could have taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You each win Gryffindor five points. Professor Dumbledore will be informed of this. You may go.” They hurried out of the chamber and didn’t speak at all until They had climbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away from the smell of even a troll, quite apart from anything else. “We should have gotten more than ten points,” Neville grumbled. “Five, you mean, once Neville ’s taken off Hermione ’s.” “Good of Neville to get We out of trouble like that,” Neville admitted. “Mind you, We did save Neville .” “Neville might not have needed saving if We hadn’t locked the thing in with Neville ,” Harry reminded Harry. we hadn’t had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady. “Pig snout,” we hadn’t said and entered. The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone was eating the food that had been sent up. Hermione, however, stood alone by the door, waiting for Everyone . There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of Everyone looking at each other, none of them said “Thanks,” and hurried off to get plates. But from that moment on, Granger became their friend. There are some things you can’t share without ending up liking each other, and knocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of a twelve-foot mountain troll. QUIDDITCH As QUIDDITCH entered November, the weather turned very cold. The mountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel. Every morning the ground was covered in frost. Hagrid could be seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the Quidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin boots. The QUIDDITCH season had begun. On Saturday, Harrywould be playing in Harry first match after weeks of training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If Gryffindor won, Gryffindor would move up into second place in the House Championship. Hardly anyone had seen Harry play because Wood had decided that, as anyone secret weapon, Harryshould be kept, well, secret. But the news that Harry was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harrydidn’t know which was worse — people telling Harry Harry’d be brilliant or people telling Harry — people’d be running around underneath Harry holding a mattress. It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermione as a friend. Harry didn’t know how he’d have gotten through all Harry homework without Harry now had Hermione as a friend, what with all the last- minute Quidditch practice Wood was making Quidditch practice Wood do. Harry now had Hermione as a friend had also lent Harry Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be a very interesting read. Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul and that all of seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul had happened during a World Cup match in ; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert. Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Harry and Neville had saved Hermione from the mountain troll, and Hermione was much nicer for it. The day before Harry’s first Quidditch match the three of them were out in the freezing courtyard during break, and Hermione had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. them were standing with them backs to it, getting warm, when Snape crossed the yard. Harry noticed at once that Snape was limping. Harry, Neville , and Hermione moved closer together to block a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar from view; Harry, Ron, and Hermione were sure it wouldn’t be allowed. Unfortunately, something about Harry, Ron, and Hermione guilty faces caught Snape’s eye. Snape limped over. Snape hadn’t seen a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar, but Snape seemed to be looking for a reason to tell Harry, Ron, and Hermione off anyway. “What’s that you’ve got there, Potter?” Potter was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed Harry. “Library books are not to be taken outside the school,” said Snape. “Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor.” “He’s just made that rule up,” Harry muttered angrily as Snape limped away. “Wonder what’s wrong with He leg?” “Dunno, but I hope it’s really hurting He,” said Hebitterly. The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat together next to a window. Hermione was checking Harry and Ron’s Charms homework for Harry, Ron, and Hermione. Hermione would never let Harry, Ron, and Hermione copy (“How will you learn?”), but by asking Hermione to read it through, Harry, Ron, and Hermione got the right answers anyway. Harry felt restless. Harry wanted Quidditch Through the Ages back, to take Harry mind off Harry nerves about tomorrow. Why should Harry be afraid of Snape? Getting up, Harry told Ron, and Hermione Harry was going to ask Snape if Harry could have it. “Better you than Harry,” Ron, and Hermione said together, but Harryhad an idea that Snape wouldn’t refuse if there were other teachers listening. Harry made Harry way down to the staffroom and knocked. There was no answer. Harry knocked again. Nothing. Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was worth a try. Harry pushed the door ajar and peered inside — and a horrible scene met Harry eyes. Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was holding Snape robes above Snape knees. One of Snape legs was bloody and mangled. Filch was handing Snape bandages. “Blasted thing,” Snape was saying. “How are you supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at once?” Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but — “POTTER!Snape ’s face was twisted with fury as Snape dropped his robes above his knees quickly to hide Snape leg. Harry gulped. “I just wondered if I could have the book back.” “GET OUT! OUT!” Harry left, before Snape could take any more points from Gryffindor. Harry sprinted back upstairs. “Did you get it?” Ron asked as Harry joined them. “What’s the matter?” In a low whisper, Harry told them what Harry’d seen. “You know what this means?” Harry finished breathlessly. “Harry tried to get past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That’s where Harry was going when we saw Harry — Harry’s after whatever it’s guarding! And I’d bet my broomstick Harry let that troll in, to make a diversion!” Hermione’s eyes were wide. “No — Harry wouldn’t,” she said. “I know Harry’s not very nice, but Harry wouldn’t try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe.” “Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints or something,” snapped Ron. “I’m with Harry. I wouldn’t put anything past Snape. But what’s Snape after? What’s that dog guarding?” Harry went to bed with Harry head buzzing with the same question. Neville was snoring loudly, but Harrycouldn’t sleep. Harry tried to empty Harry mind — Harry needed to sleep, Harry had to, Harry had Harry first Quidditch match in a few hours — but the expression on Snape’s face when Harry had seen Harry leg wasn’t easy to forget. The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The Great Hall was full of the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match. “You’ve got to eat some breakfast.” “I don’t want anything.” “Just a bit of toast,” wheedled Hermione. “I’m not hungry.” Harry felt terrible. In an hour’s time Harry’d be walking onto the field. “Harry, you need your strength,” said Seamus Finnigan. “Seekers are always the ones who get clobbered by the other team.” “Thanks, Seamus,” said Harry, watching Seamus pile ketchup on Seamus sausages. By eleven o’clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around the Quidditch pitch. Many students had binoculars. The seats might be raised high in the air, but The seats was still difficult to see what was going on sometimes. Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in the top row. As a surprise for HarryHarry, they had painted a large banner on one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for President, and Dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lion underneath. Then Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that the paint flashed different colors. Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of the team were changing into the team scarlet Quidditch robes (Slytherin would be playing in green) . Wood cleared Wood throat for silence. “Okay, men,” Wood said. “And women,” said Chaser Angelina Johnson. “And women,” Wood agreed. “This is it.” “The big one,” said Fred Weasley. “The one we’ve all been waiting for,” said George. “We know Oliver’s speech by heart,” Fred told Harry, “We were on the team last year.” “Shut up, you two,” said Wood. “This is the best team Gryffindor’s had in years. We’re going to win. I know it.” Oliver glared at them all as if to say, “Or else.” “Right. It’s time. Good luck, all of you.” Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker room and, hoping Harry knees weren’t going to give way, walked onto the field to loud cheers. Madam Hooch was refereeing. Madam Hooch stood in the middle of the field waiting for the two teams, Madam Hooch broom in Madam Hooch hand. “Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you,” Madam Hooch said, once they were all gathered around Madam Hooch. Harry noticed that Madam Hooch seemed to be speaking particularly to the Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a fifth year. Harrythought Flint looked as if Harry had some troll blood in Harry. Out of the corner of Harry eye Harry saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing Potter for President over the crowd. Harry heart skipped. Harry felt braver. “Mount your brooms, please.” Harry clambered onto Harry Nimbus Two Thousand. Madam Hooch gave a loud blast on Madam Hooch silver whistle. Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. Fifteen brooms were off. “And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor — what an excellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too — ” “JORDAN!” “Sorry, Professor.” The Weasley twins’ friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the commentary for the match, closely watched by Professor McGonagall. “And that girl’s really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood’s, last year only a reserve — back to Chaser Angelina Johnson and — no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Flint gains the Quaffle and off Chaser Angelina Johnson goes — Flint flying like an eagle up there — Chaser Angelina Johnson’s going to sc- no, stopped by an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle — that’s Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive around Flint, off up the field and — OUCH — that must have hurt, hit in the back of the head by a Bludger — Quaffle taken by the Slytherins — that’s Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but ’s Adrian Pucey blocked by a second Bludger — sent his way by Fred or George Weasley, can’t tell which — nice play by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Chaser Angelina Johnson back in possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding Bludger — the goal posts are ahead — come on, now, Angelina — Keeper Bletchley dives — misses — GRYFFINDORS SCORE!” Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moans from the Slytherins. “Budge up there, move along.” “Hagrid!” Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid enough space to join Ron and Hermione. “Bin watchin’ from “Bin hut,” said Hagrid , patting a large pair of binoculars around Hagrid neck, “But it isn’t the same as bein’ in the crowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?” “Nope,” said Ron. “Harry hasn’t had much to do yet.” “Kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,” said Hagrid , raising Hagrid binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry. Way up above , Harry was gliding over the game, squinting about for some sign of the Snitch . This was part of Harry and Wood’s game plan. “Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch ,” Wood had said. “We don’t want you attacked before you have to be.” When Angelina had scored, Harry had done a couple of loop-the-loops to let off Harry feelings. Now Harry was back to staring around for the Snitch . Once Harry caught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection from one of the Weasleys’ wristwatches, and once a Bludger decided to come pelting Harry way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Harry dodged it and Fred Weasley came chasing after it. “All right there, Harry?” Harry had time to yell, as Harry beat a Bludger furiously toward Flint. “Slytherin in possession,” Lee Jordan was saying, “Chaser Pucey ducks two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the — wait a moment — was that the Snitch ?” A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle, too busy looking over Adrian Pucey shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed Adrian Pucey left ear. Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement Harry dived downward after the streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs, too. Neck and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch — all the Chasers seemed to have forgotten what all the Chasers were supposed to be doing as all the Chasers hung in midair to watch. Harry was faster than Terence Higgs — Harry could see the little round ball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead — Harry put on an extra spurt of speed — WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below — Marcus Flint had blocked Harry on purpose, and Harry’s broom spun off course, Harry holding on for dear life. “Foul!” screamed the Gryffindors . Madam Hooch spoke angrily to — Marcus Flint and then ordered a free shot at the goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all the confusion, of course, the Snitch had disappeared from sight again. Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, “Send Dean Thomas off, ref! Red card!” “What are you talking about, Dean Thomas?” said Ron. “Red card!” said Dean Thomas furiously. “In soccer you get shown the red card and you’re out of the game!” “But this isn’t soccer, Dean Thomas,” Ron reminded Ron. Hagrid, however, was on Dean’s side. “They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Harry outta the air.” Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides. “So — after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating — ” “Jordan!” growled Professor McGonagall. “I mean, after that open and revolting foul — ” “Jordan, I’m warning you — ” “All right, all right. — Marcus Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, which could happen to anyone, I’m sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken by Spinnet, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor still in possession.” It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went spinning dangerously past Harry head, that it happened. Harry broom gave a sudden, frightening lurch. For a split second, Harry thought Harry was going to fall. Harry gripped His broom tightly with both Harry hands and knees. He’d never felt anything like that. It happened again. It was as though His broom was trying to buck Harry off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to buck Nimbus Two Thousands riders off. Harrytried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal posts — Harry had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out — and then Harry realized that His broom was completely out of Harry control. Harry couldn’t turn his broom was completely out of his control. Harry couldn’t direct his broom was completely out of his control at all. his broom was completely out of his control was zigzagging through the air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that almost unseated Harry. Lee Jordan was still commentating. “Slytherin in possession — Flint with the Quaffle — passes Spinnet — passes Higgs — hit hard in the face by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose — only joking, Professor — Slytherins score — oh no ...” the Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have noticed that His broom was behaving strangely His broom was carrying Harry slowly higher, away from the game, jerking and twitching as His broom went. “Dunno what Harry thinks Harry’s doing,” Hagrid mumbled. Harry stared through his binoculars. “If I didn’ know better, I’d say Harry’d lost control of Harry broom ... but Harry can’t have. ...” Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over the stands. his broom had started to roll over and over, with Harry only just managing to hold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. his broom had given a wild jerk and Harry swung off a wild jerk. Harry was now dangling from a wild jerk, holding on with only one hand. “Did something happen to it when — Marcus Flint blocked Harry?” Seamus whispered. “Can’t have,Hagrid said, Hagrid voice shaking. “Can’t nothing interfere with a broomstick except powerful Dark magic — no kid could do that to a Nimbus Two Thousand.” At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid ’s binoculars, but instead of looking up at Harry, Hermione started looking frantically at the whole crowd. “What are you doing?” moaned Ron, gray-faced. “I knew it,” Hermione gasped, “Snape — look.” Ron grabbed his binoculars. Snape was in the middle of the stands opposite them. Snape had Snape eyes fixed on Harry Harry and was muttering nonstop under Snape breath. “Snape’s doing something — jinxing the broom,” said Hermione. “What should we do?” “Leave it to “.” Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had disappeared. Ron turned his binoculars back on HarryHarry. his broom was vibrating so hard, his broom was almost impossible for Ron to hang on much longer. the whole crowd was on the whole crowd feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleys flew up to try and pull Harry safely onto one of the whole crowd brooms, but it was no good — every time the whole crowd got near Ron, his broom would jump higher still. the whole crowd dropped lower and circled beneath Ron, obviously hoping to catch Ron if Ron fell. — Marcus Flint seized the Quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing. “Come on, Hermione,” Ron muttered desperately. Hermione had fought Hermione way across to the stand where Snape stood, and was now racing along the row behind Snape; Snape didn’t even stop to say sorry as Snape knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in front. Reaching Snape, Snape crouched down, pulled out Snape wand, and whispered a few, well-chosen words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto the hem of Snape ’s robes. It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize that Snape was on fire. A sudden yelp told Snape Snape had done Snape job. Scooping fire off Snape into a little jar in Snape pocket, Snape scrambled back along the row — Snape would never know what had happened. It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able to clamber back on to his broom. “Neville, you can look!” Ron said. Neville had been sobbing into Hagrid’s jacket for the last five minutes. Harry was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw Harry clap Harry hand to Harry mouth as though was about to be sick — hit the field on all fours Higgs — coughed — and something gold fell into . “I’ve got the Snitch !” shouted, waving it above head, and the game ended in complete confusion. “ didn’t catch it, nearly swallowed it,” — Marcus Flint was still howling twenty minutes later, but it made no difference — Harry hadn’t broken any rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shouting the results — Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Harry heard none of this, though. Harry was being made a cup of strong tea back in Hagrid’s hut, with Ron and Hermione. “It was Snape,” Ron was explaining, “Hermione and I saw Ron. Ron was cursing your broomstick, muttering, Ron wouldn’t take his eyes off Ron.” “Rubbish,” said Hagrid, who hadn’t heard a word of what had gone on next to Ron in the stands. “Why would Snape do somethin’ like that?” Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another, wondering what to tell Ron. Harry decided on the truth. “I found out something about Harry,” Harry told Hagrid. “Harry tried to get past that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit Harry. We think Harry was trying to steal whatever it’s guarding.” Hagrid dropped the teapot. “How do you know about Fluffy?” Harry said. “ Fluffy ?” “Yeah — bought off a Greek chappie I met in the pub las’ year — I lent to Dumbledore to guard the — ” “Yes?” said Harry eagerly. “Now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Hagrid gruffly. “That’s top secret, that is.” “But Snape’s trying to steal That.” “Rubbish,” said Hagrid again. “Snape’s a Hogwarts teacher, Snape’d do nothin’ of the sort.” “So why did Snape just try and kill Harry?” cried Hermione. The afternoon’s events certainly seemed to have changed her mind about Snape. “I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I’ve read all about all ! You’ve got to keep eye contact, and Snape wasn’t blinking at all, I saw Snape!” “I’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Hagrid hotly. “I don’ know why His broom acted like that, but Snapewouldn’ try an’ kill a student! Now, listen to yeh, all three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’ concern yeh. His broom’s dangerous. You forget that dog, an’ you forget what His broom’s guardin’, that’s between Professor Dumbledore an’ Nicolas Flamel — ■” “Aha!” said Harry, “so there’s someone called Nicolas Flamel involved, is there?” Hagrid looked furious with Hagrid. THE MIRROR OF ERISED Christmas was coming. One morning in mid- December, Hogwarts woke to find Hogwarts covered in several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so that the Weasley twins followed Quirrell around, bouncing off the back of Quirrell turban. The few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hagrid before The few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to deliver mail could fly off again. No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindor common room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the drafty corridors had become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms. Worst of all were Professor Snape’s classes down in the dungeons, where Worst of all breath rose in a mist before Worst of all and Worst of all kept as close as possible to Worst of all hot cauldrons. “I do feel so sorry,” said Draco Malfoy, one Potions class, “for all those people who have to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas because they’re not wanted at home.” He was looking over at Harry as He spoke. Crabbe and Goyle chuckled. Harry, who was measuring out powdered spine of lion-fish, ignored Harry, who was measuring out powdered spine of lion-fish. Malfoy had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditch match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, He had tried to get everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing Harry as Seeker next. Then He’d realized that nobody found this funny, because they were all so impressed at the way Harry had managed to stay on Harry bucking broomstick. So Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone back to taunting Harry about having no proper family. It was true that Harry wasn’t going back to Privet Drive for Christmas. Professor McGonagall had come around the week before, making a list of students who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had signed up at once. Harry didn’t feel sorry for Harry at all; this would probably be the best Christmas Harry’d ever had. Ron and Ron brothers were staying, too, because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania to visit Charlie. When Ron and his brothers left the dungeons at the end of Potions, Ron and his brothers found a large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out at the bottom and a loud puffing sound told Two enormous feet that Hagrid was behind Hagrid. “Hi, Hagrid, want any help?” Ron asked, sticking Ron head through the branches. “Nah, I’m all right, thanks, Ron.” “Would you mind moving out of the way?” came Malfoy’s cold drawl from behind them. “Are you trying to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts , I suppose — that hut of Hagrid’s must seem like a palace compared to what your family’s used to.” Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs. “WEASLEY!” Ron let go of the front of Malfoy’s robes. “Ron was provoked, Snape,” said Hagrid, sticking Ron huge hairy face out from behind the tree. Malfoy was insultin’ Malfoy family.” “Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hagrid,” said Snape silkily. “Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it isn’t more. Move along, all of you.” Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the tree, scattering needles everywhere and smirking. “I’ll get Crabbe,” said Ron, grinding Ron teeth at Malfoy’s back, “one of these days, I’ll get Crabbe — ” “I hate them both,” said Harry, “Malfoy and Snape.” “Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said Hagrid. “Tell yeh what, come with me an’ see the Great Hall, looks a treat.” So the three of them followed Hagrid and Hagrid tree off to the Great Hall, where Professor McGonagall and Professor Flitwick were busy with the Christmas decorations. “Ah, Hagrid, the last tree — put it in the far corner, would you?” the Great Hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hung all around the walls, and no less than twelve towering Christmas trees stood around the room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering with hundreds of candles. “How many days you got left until yer holidays?” Hagrid asked. “Just one,” said Hermione. “And that reminds me — Harry, Ron, we’ve got half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library.” “Oh yeah, you’re right,” said Ron, tearing Ron eyes away from Professor Flitwick, who had golden bubbles blossoming out of Ron wand and was trailing them over the branches of the new tree. “the library?” said Hagrid, following them out of the Great Hall. “Just before the holidays? Bit keen, aren’t yeh?” “Oh, we’re not working,” Harry told Harry brightly. “Ever since you mentioned Nicolas Flamel we’ve been trying to find out who Harry is.” “You what?” Hagrid looked shocked. “Listen here — I’ve told yeh — drop it. it’s nothin’ to you what that dog’s guardin’.” “we just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that’s all,” said Hermione. “Unless you’d like to tell we and save we the trouble?” Harry added. “we must’ve been through hundreds of books already and we can’t find Nicolas Flamel anywhere — just give we a hint — I know I’ve read Nicolas Flamel name somewhere.” “I’m sayin’ nothin’,” said Hagrid flatly. “Just have to find out for we, then,” said Ron, and Ron, left Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library. Ron, had indeed been searching books for Flamel’s name ever since Hagrid had let Hagrid slip, because how else were Ron, going to find out what Snape was trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to begin, not knowing what Nicolas Flamel might have done to get Nicolas Flamel into a book. Nicolas Flamel wasn’t in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable Magical Names of Our Time ; Nicolas Flamel was missing, too, from Important Modern Magical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And then, of course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows. Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles Hermione had decided to search while Ron strode off down a row of books and started pulling them off the shelves at random. Harry wandered over to the Restricted Section. Harry had been wondering for a while if Nicolas Flamelwasn’t somewhere in there. Unfortunately, you needed a specially signed note from one of the teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and Harry knew Harry’d never get one. These were bookscontaining powerful Dark Magic never taught at Hogwarts , and only read by older students studying advanced Defense Against the Dark Arts. “What are you looking for, boy?” “Nothing,” said Harry. Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather duster at the librarian. “You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!” Wishing he’d been a bit quicker at thinking up some story, Harry left the library. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had already agreed He, Ron, and Hermione ’d better not ask Madam Pince where He, Ron, and Hermione could find Nicolas Flamel. He, Ron, and Hermione were sure Madam ’d be able to tell He, Ron, and Hermione , but He, Ron, and Hermione couldn’t risk Snape hearing what He, Ron, and Hermione were up to. Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two had found anything, but Harry wasn’t very hopeful. He, Ron, and Hermione had been looking for two weeks, after all, but as He, Ron, and Hermione only had odd moments between lessons it wasn’t surprising He, Ron, and Hermione ’d found nothing. What He, Ron, and Hermione really needed was a nice long search without Madam Pince breathing down He, Ron, and Hermione necks. Five minutes later, Ron and his brothers joined Ron, shaking Ron and his brothers heads. Ron and his brothers went off to lunch. “You will keep looking while I’m away, won’t you?” said Hermione. “And send me an owl if you find anything.” “And you could ask your parents if your parents know who Flamel is,” said Ron. “It’d be safe to ask your parents.” “Very safe, as your parents’re both dentists,” said Hermione. Once the holidays had started, Ron and his brothers were having too good a time to think much about Flamel. Ron and his brothers had the dormitory to Ron and his brothers and the common room was far emptier than usual, so Ron and his brothers were able to get the good armchairs by the fire. Ron and his brothers sat by the hour eating anything Ron and his brothers could spear on a toasting fork — bread, English muffins, marshmallows — and plotting ways of getting Malfoy expelled, which were fun to talk about even if they wouldn’t work. Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This was exactly like Muggle chess except that the figures were alive, which made it a lot like directing troops in battle. Ron’s set was very old and battered. Like everything else Ron’s owned, Ron’s set had once belonged to someone else in Ron’s family — in this case, Ron’s grandfather. However, old chessmen weren’t a drawback at all. Ron knew old chessmen so well Ron never had trouble getting old chessmen to do what Ron wanted. Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had lent Harry, and old chessmen didn’t trust Harry at all. Harry wasn’t a very good player yet and old chessmen kept shouting different bits of advice at Harry, which was confusing. “Don’t send me there, can’t you see Harry knight? Send Harry, we can afford to lose Harry.” On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward to the next day for the food and the fun, but not expecting any presents at all. When Harry woke early in the morning, however, the first thing Harry saw was a small pile of packages at the foot of Harry bed. “Merry Christmas,” said Ron sleepily as Harry scrambled out of bed and pulled on Harry bathrobe. “You, too,” said Harry. “Will you look at this? I’ve got some presents!” “What did you expect, turnips?” said Ron, turning to Ron own pile, which was a lot bigger than Harry’s. Harry picked up the top parcel. the top parcel was wrapped in thick brown paper and scrawled across the top parcel was To Harry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cut wooden flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it Hagrid. Harry blew it — it sounded a bit like an owl. A second, very small parcel contained a note. We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. From Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped to a note was a fifty-pence piece. “ThatRon’s friendly,” said Harry. Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence. “ Weird\ ” Ron said, “What a shape! This is money?” “You can keep it,” said Harry, laughing at how pleased Ron was. “Hagrid and my aunt and uncle — so who sent these?” “I think I know who that one’s from,” said Ron, turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy parcel. “My mom. I told My mom you didn’t expect any presents and — oh, no,” Ron groaned, “My mom’s made you a Weasley sweater.” Harry had torn open a very lumpy parcel to find a thick, hand- knitted sweater in emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge. “Every year My mom makes you a Weasley sweater,” said Ron, unwrapping Ron own, “and mine’s always maroon.” “That’s really nice of My mom,” said Harry, trying the fudge, which was very tasty. Harry next present also contained candy — a large box of Chocolate Frogs from Hermione. This only left one parcel. Harry picked This up and felt This. This was very light. Harry unwrapped This. Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floor where This lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped. “I’ve heard of those,” Ron said in a hushed voice, dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he’d gotten from Hermione. “If that’s what I think it is — they’re really rare, and really valuable.” “What is it?” Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor where it lay in gleaming folds. It was strange to the touch, like water woven into material. “It’s an Invisibility Cloak,” said Ron, a look of awe on his face. “I’m sure it is — try it on.” Harry threw an Invisibility Cloak around Harry shoulders and Rongave a yell. “It is! Look down!” Harry looked down at Harry feet, but they were gone. Harry dashed to the mirror. Sure enough, Harry reflection looked back at Harry, just Harry head suspended in midair, Harry body completely invisible. Harry pulled an Invisibility Cloak his head and Harry reflection vanished completely. “There’s a note!” said Ron suddenly. “A note fell out of it!” Harry pulled off an Invisibility Cloak and seized the letter. Written in narrow, loopy writing Harry had never seen before were the following words: Your father left this in my possession before Your father died. It is time it was returned to you. Use it well. A Very Merry Christmas to you. There was no signature. Harry stared at a note. Ronwas admiring an Invisibility Cloak. “I’d give anuthinq for one of these,” Ron said. “Anuthinq. What’s the matter?” “Nothing,” said Harry. Harry felt very strange. Who had sent an Invisibility Cloak? Had it really once belonged to Your father? Before Harry could say or think anything else, the dormitory door was flung open and Fred and George Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffed an Invisibility Cloak quickly out of sight. Harry didn’t feel like sharing it with anyone else yet. “Merry Christmas!” “Hey, look — Harry’s got a Weasley sweater, too!” Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one with a large yellow F on it, the other a G. “Harry’s is better than ours, though,” said Fred and Georgeholding up Harry’s sweater. “Harry obviously makes more of an effort if you’re not family.” “Why aren’t you wearing yours, Ron?” George demanded. “Come on, get it on, they’re lovely and warm.” “I hate maroon,” Ron moaned halfheartedly as Ron pulled it over Ron head. “You haven’t got a letter on yours,” George observed. “I suppose she thinks you don’t forget your name. But we’re not stupid — we know we’re called Gred and Forge.” “What’s all this noise?” Weasley stuck his head through the door, looking disapproving. Weasley had clearly gotten halfway through unwrapping Weasley presents as Weasley, too, carried a lumpy sweater over Weasley arm, which Fred seized. “P for prefect! Get “P for prefect on, Percy, come on, we’re all wearing we, Harry Harry got one.” “I — don’t — want — ” said Percy thickly, as the twins forced the sweater over Percy , knocking Percy glasses askew. “And you’re not sitting with the prefects today, either,” said George . “Merry Christmas is a time for family.” They frog-marched Percy from the room, They frog-marched Percy from the room arms pinned to They frog-marched Percy from the room side by They frog-marched Percy from the room . Harry had never in all Harry life had such a Christmas dinner. A hundred fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes; platters of chipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich gravy and cranberry sauce — and stacks of wizard crackers every few feet along the table. These fantastic party favors were nothing like the feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with These fantastic party favors little plastic toys and These fantastic party favors flimsy paper hats inside. Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and a wizard cracker didn’t just bang, a wizard cracker went off with a blast like a cannon and engulfed in a cloud of blue smoke, while from the inside exploded a rear admiral’s hat and several live, white mice. Up at the High Table, Dumbledore had swapped Dumbledore pointed wizardRon’s hat for a flowered bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwick had just read Professor Flitwick. Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke Percy teeth on a silver Sickle embedded in Percy slice. Harry watched Hagrid getting redder and redder in the face as Harry called for more wine, finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek, who, to Harry’s amazement, giggled and blushed, Professor McGonagall top hat lopsided. When Harry finally left the table, Harry was laden down with a stack of things out of the crackers, including a pack of non-explodable, luminous balloons, a Grow- Your-Own-Warts kit, and Harry own new wizard chess set. The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nasty feeling The white mice were going to end up as Mrs. Norris’s Christmas dinner. Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball fight on the grounds. Then, cold, wet, and gasping for breath, Harry and the Weasleys returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry broke in Harry new chess set by losing spectacularly to RonRon. Harry suspected Harry wouldn’t have lost so badly if Percy hadn’t tried to help Harry so much. After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, and Christmas cake, everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and watch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor Tower because Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor Tower ’d stolen his prefect badge. It had been Harry’s best Christmas day ever. Yet something had been nagging at the back of Harry mind all day. Not until Harry climbed into bed was Harry free to think about Not until he climbed into bed: the Invisibility Cloak and whoever had sent Not until he climbed into bed. Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother Harry , fell asleep almost as soon as he’d drawn the curtains of Harry four-poster. Harryleaned over the side of Harry own bed and pulled the cloak out from under it. Harry father’s ... this had been His father’s. Harry let the material flow over Harry hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well, the note had said. Harry had to try it, now. Harry slipped out of bed and wrapped an Invisibility Cloak around Harry. Looking down at Harry legs, Harry saw only moonlight and shadows. It was a very funny feeling. Use It well. Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts was open to Harry in an Invisibility Cloak. Excitement flooded through Harry as Harry stood there in the dark and silence. Harry could go anywhere in this, anywhere, and Filch would never know. Ron grunted in Ron sleep. Should Harry wake Ron? Something held Ron back — His father’s cloak — Ron felt that this time — the first time — Ron wanted to use it alone. Ron crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across the common room, and climbed through the portrait hole. “Who’s there?” squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said nothing. Ron walked quickly down the corridor. Where should Ron go? Ron stopped, Ron heart racing, and thought. And then it came to Ron. The Restricted Section in the library. He’d be able to read as long as Ron liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel was. Ron set off, drawing an Invisibility Cloak tight around Ron as Ron walked. the library was pitch-black and very eerie. Harry lit a lamp to see Harry way along the rows of books. a lamp looked as if a lamp was floating along in midair, and even though Harry could feel Harry arm supporting a lamp, the sight gave Harry the creeps. The Restricted Section in the library was right at the back of the library. Stepping carefully over the rope that separated these books from the rest of the library, Harry held up a lamp to read the titles. They didn’t tell Harry much. They peeling, faded gold letters spelled words in languages Harry couldn’t understand. Some had no title at all. One book had a dark stain on One book that looked horribly like blood. The hairs on the back of Harry’s neck prickled. Maybe Harry was imagining it, maybe not, but Harry thought a faint whispering was coming from the books, as though they knew someone was there who shouldn’t be. Harry had to start somewhere. Setting a lamp down carefully on the floor, Harry looked along the bottom shelf for an interesting-looking book. A large black and silver volume caught Harry eye. Harry pulled his eye out with difficulty, because his eye was very heavy, and, balancing his eye on Harry knee, let his eye fall open. A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence — One book was screaming! Harry snapped One book shut, but A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek went on and on, one high, unbroken, earsplitting note. Harry stumbled backward and knocked over a lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, Harry heard footsteps coming down the corridor outside — stuffing One book back on the bottom shelf, Harry ran for One book. Harry passed Filch in the doorway; Filch’s pale, wild eyes looked straight through Harry, and Harryslipped under Filch’s outstretched arm and streaked off up the corridor, One bookFilch’s shrieks still ringing in Harry ears. Harry came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. Harry had been so busy getting away from the library, Harry hadn’t paid attention to where Harry was going. Perhaps because it was dark, Harry didn’t recognize where Harry was at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens, Harry knew, but Harry must be five floors above there. “You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyone was wandering around at night, and somebody’s been in the library — Restricted Section.” Harry felt the blood drain out of Harry face. Wherever Harry was, Filch must know a shortcut, because Harry soft, greasy voice was getting nearer, and to Harry horror, it was Snape who replied, “The Restricted Section in the library? Well, they can’t be far, we’ll catch they.” Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape came around the corner ahead. Filch and Snape couldn’t see Harry, of course, but it was a narrow corridor and if came much nearer they’d knock right into Harry — an Invisibility Cloak didn’t stop Harry from being solid. Harry backed away as quietly as Harry could. A door stood ajar to Harry left. A door was Harry only hope. Harry squeezed through A door, holding Harry breath, trying not to move A door, and to Harry relief Harry managed to get inside the room without his relief noticing anything. his relief walked straight past, and Harry leaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to his relief footsteps dying away. That had been close, very close. It was a few seconds before Harry noticed anything about the room Harry had hidden in. It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes of desks and chairs were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper basket — but propped against the wall facing Harry was something that didn’t look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someone had just put it there to keep it out of the way. It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, with an ornate gold frame, standing on two clawed feet. There was an inscription carved around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. panic fading now that there was no sound of Filch and Snape, Harry moved nearer to a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, wanting to look at Harry but see no reflection again. Harry stepped in front of it. Harry had to clap his hands to Harry mouth to stop Harry from screaming. Harry whirled around. Harry heart was pounding far more furiously than when One book had screamed — for Harry had seen not only Harry in the mirror, but a whole crowd of people standing right behind Harry. But the room he had was empty. Breathing very fast, Harry turned slowly back to a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling. There Harry was, reflected in a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, white and scared- looking, and there, reflected behind Harry, were at least ten others. Harry looked over Harry shoulder — but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible, too? Was Harry in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirrors trick was that it reflected invisible people, invisible or not? Harry looked in a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling again. A woman standing right behind Harry reflection was smiling at Harry and waving. Harry reached out a hand and felt the air behind Harry. If A woman standing right behind his reflection was really there, Harry’d touch A woman standing right behind his reflection, their reflections were so close together, but Harry felt only air — A woman standing right behind his reflection and the others existed only in a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling. A woman standing right behind his reflection was a very pretty woman. A woman standing right behind his reflection had dark red hair and A woman standing right behind his reflection eyes — her eyes are just like mine, Harrythought, edging a little closer to the glass. Bright green — exactly the same shape, but then Harry noticed that A woman standing right behind his reflection was crying; smiling, but crying at the same time. The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next to A woman standing right behind his reflection put The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next to her arm around A woman standing right behind his reflection. The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next to her wore glasses, and The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next to her hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just as Harry’s did. Harry was so close to the mirror now that Harry nose was nearly touching that of Harry reflection. “Mom?” Harry whispered. “Dad?” They just looked at Harry, smiling. And slowly, Harrylooked into the faces of the other people in the mirror, and saw other pairs of green eyes like Harry, other noses like Harry, even a little old man who looked as though Harry had Harry’s knobbly knees Harry Harry was looking at Harry family, for the first time in Harry life. The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and Harry stared hungrily back at The Potters, his hands pressed flat against the glass as though Harry was hoping to fall right through the glass and reach The Potters. Harry had a powerful kind of ache inside Harry, half joy, half terrible sadness. How long Harry stood there, Harry didn’t know. The reflections did not fade and Harry looked and looked until a distant noise brought Harry back to Harry senses. Harry couldn’t stay here, Harry had to find Harry way back to bed. Harry tore Harry eyes away from Harry motherFilch’s face, whispered, “I’ll come back,” and hurried from the room. “You could have woken me up,” said Ron, crossly. “You can come tonight, I’m going back, I want to show you a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling.” “I’d like to see your mom and dad,” Ron said eagerly. “And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and everyone.” “You can see your other brothers and everyone any old time,” said Ron. “Just come round my house this summer. Anyway, maybe my house only shows dead people. Shame about not finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why aren’t you eating anything?” Harry couldn’t eat. Harry had seen Harry parents and would be seeing his parents and again tonight. Harry had almost forgotten about Flamel. It didn’t seem very important anymore. Who cared what the three-headed dog was guarding? What did it matter if Snape stole it, really? “Are you all right?” said Ron. “You look odd.” What Harry feared most was that Harry might not be able to find the mirror room again. With Ron covered in the cloak, too, they had to walk much more slowly the next night. they tried retracing Harry’s route from the library, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour. “I’m freezing,” said Ron. “LetFilch’s forget it and go back.” “IVo!” Harry hissed. “I know it’s here somewhere.” passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the opposite direction, but saw no one else. Just as Ronstarted moaning that Ron feet were dead with cold, Harry spotted the suit of armor. “It’s here — just here — yes!” They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak from around Harry shoulders and ran to the mirror. There They were. Harry mother and father beamed at the sight of Harry. “See?” Harry whispered. “I can’t see anything.” “Look! Look at them all ... there are loads of them. ...” “I can only see you.” “Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am.” Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the mirror, Harry couldn’t see his family anymore, just Ronin Harry paisley pajamas. Ron, though, was staring transfixed at Ron image. “Look at Ron!” Ron said. “Can you see all your family standing around you?” “No — I’m alone — but I’m different — I look older — and I’m Head Boy!” “What?” “I am — I’m wearing the badge like Bill used to — and I’m holding the House Cup and the Quidditch Cup — I’m Quidditch captain, too!” Ron tore Ron away from this splendid sight to look excitedly at Harry. “Do you think this mirror shows the future?” “How can this mirror? All my family are dead — let me have another look — ” “You had this mirror to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time.” “You’re only holding the House Cup, whatFilch’sinteresting about that? I want to see my parents.” “Don’t push me — ” A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to their discussion. their hadn’t realized how loudly their had been talking. “Quick!” Ron threw an Invisibility Cloak back over their as his eyes came round the door. Ron and Harry stood quite still, Ron and Harry thinking the same thing — did the an Invisibility Cloak work on cats? After what seemed an age, Mrs. Norris turned and left. “This isn’t safe — Mrs. Norris might have gone for Filch, I bet Mrs. Norris heard us. Come on.” And Ron pulled Harry out of the room. The snow still hadn’t melted the next morning. “Want to play chess, Harry?” said Ron. “No.” “Why don’t us go down and visit Hagrid?” “No ... you go ...” “I know what you’re thinking about, Harry, that mirror. Don’t go back tonight.” “Why not?” “I dunno, I’ve just got a bad feeling about it — and anyway, you’ve had too many close shaves already. Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are wandering around. So what if Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris can’t see you? What if Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris walk into you? What if you knock something over?” “You sound like Hermione.” “I’m serious, Harry, don’t go.” But Harry only had one thought in Harry head, which was to get back in front of mirror, and Ron wasn’t going to stop Harry. That third night Harry found Harry way more quickly than before. Harry was walking so fast Harry knew Harry was making more noise than was wise, but Harry didn’t meet anyone. And there were Harry mother and father smiling at Harry again, and one of Harry grandfathers nodding happily. Harry sank down to sit on the floor in front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop Harry from staying here all night with Harry family. Nothing at all. Except — “So — back again, Harry?” Harry felt as though Harry insides had turned to ice. Harry looked behind Harry. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Albus Dumbledore. Harrymust have walked straight past Harry, so desperate to get to the mirror Harry hadn’t noticed Harry. “I — I didn’t see you, sir.” “Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you,” said Albus Dumbledore, and Harry was relieved to see that Harry was smiling. “So,” said Albus Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with Harry, “you, like hundreds before you, have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised.” “I didn’t know it was called that, sir.” “But I expect you’ve realized by now what it does?” “it — well — it shows me my family — ” “And it showed your friend Ron himself as Head Boy.” “How did you know — ?” “I don’t need a cloak to become invisible,” said Dumbledore gently. “Now, can you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?” Harry shook Harry head. “Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised Erised like a normal mirror, that is, The happiest man on earth would look into the Mirror of Erised and see The happiest man on earth exactly as The happiest man on earth is. Does that help?” Harry thought. Then The happiest man on earth said slowly, “It shows us what us want ... whatever us want ...” “Yes and no,” said Dumbledore gently quietly. “It shows us nothing more or less than the deepest, most desperate desire of us hearts. You, who have never known your family, see your family standing around you. Ronald Weasley, who has always been overshadowed by his brothers, sees his standing alone, the best of all of Ronald Weasley, who has always been overshadowed by his brothers. However, the Mirror of Erised will give us neither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away before the Mirror of Erised, entranced by what Men have seen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what the Mirror of Erised shows is real or even possible. “the Mirror of Erised will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Harry, and I ask you not to go looking for the Mirror of Erised again. If you ever do run across the Mirror of Erised, you will now be prepared. the Mirror of Erised does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, remember that. Now, why don’t you put that admirable cloak back on and get off to bed?” Harry stood up. “Dumbledore gently? Can I ask you something?” “Obviously, you’ve just done so,” Dumbledore gently smiled. “You may ask me one more thing, however.” “What do you see when you look in the Mirror of Erised?” “I? I see Dumbledore gently holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.” Harry stared. “One can never have enough socks,” said Dumbledore gently. “Another Christmas has come and gone and I didn’t get a single pair. People will insist on giving me books.” It was only when he was back in bed that it struck Harry that Dumbledore gently might not have been quite truthful. But then, he thought, as he shoved Scabbers off he pillow, it had been quite a personal question. NICHOLAS FLAMBL Dumbledore gently had convinced Harry not to go looking for the Mirror of Erised Erised again, and for the rest of the Christmas holidays an Invisibility Cloak stayed folded at the bottom of Dumbledore gently trunk. Harry wished Harry could forget what Harry’d seen in the Mirror of Erised as easily, but Harry couldn’t. Harry started having nightmares. Over and over again Harry dreamed about Harry parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high voice cackled with laughter. “You see, Dumbledore gently was right, the Mirror of Erised could drive you mad,” said Ron, when Harry told Dumbledore gently about these dreams. Hermione, who came back the day before term started, took a different view of things. She was torn between horror at the idea of Harry being out of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row (“If Filch had caught you!”), and disappointment that Filch had hadn’t at least found out who Nicolas Flamel was. had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a library book, even though Harry was still sure Harry’d read the name somewhere. Once term had started, were back to skimming through books for ten minutes during breaks. Harry had even less time than the other two, because Quidditch practice had started again. Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even the endless rain that had replaced the snow couldn’t dampen Harry spirits. The Weasleys complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on Wood’s side. If they won they next match, against Hufflepuff, they would overtake Slytherin in the House Championship for the first time in seven years. Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry found that Harry had fewer nightmares when Harry was tired out after training. Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice session, Wood gave the team a bit of bad news. He’d just gotten very angry with the Weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off their brooms. “Will you stop messing around!” Harry yelled. “ThatFilch’sexactly the sort of thing that’ll lose us the match! Filch’s refereeing this time, and Filch’s’ll be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!” George Weasley really did fall off George Weasley broom at these words. “ Filch’s refereeing?” Snape spluttered through a mouthful of mud. “Filch’s George Weasley ever refereed a Quidditch match? George WeasleyFilch’s not going to be fair if we might overtake Slytherin.” The rest of the team landed next to George to complain, too. “It’s not my fault,” said Wood. “We’ve just got to make sure We play a clean game, so Snape hasn’t got an excuse to pick on We.” Which was all very well, thought Harry, but Harry had another reason for not wanting Snape near Harry while Harry was playing Quidditch. ... The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the end of practice, but Harry headed straight back to the Gryffindor common room, where Harry found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was the only thing Hermione ever lost at, something Harryand Ron thought was very good for Harry. “Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ron when Harrysat down next to Ron, “I need to concern” Harry caught sight of Harry’s face. “What’s the matter with you? You look terrible.” Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Harry told the other two about Snape ’s sudden, sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee. “Don’t play,” said Hermione at once. “Say you’re ill,” said Ron. “Pretend to break your leg,” Hermione suggested. “ Really break your leg,” said Ron. “I can’t,” said Harry. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I back out, Gryffindor can’t play at all.” At that moment Neville toppled into the common room. How Neville had managed to climb through the portrait hole was anyoneFilch’s guess, because Neville legs had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the Leg-Locker Curse. Neville must have had to bunny hop all the way up to Gryffindor Tower. Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who leapt up and performed the countercurse. Neville’s legs sprang apart and Neville’s got to Neville’s feet, trembling. “What happened?” Hermione asked Neville’s , leading Neville’s over to sit with Harry and Ron. “Malfoy,” said Neville shakily. “I met Neville outside the library. Neville said Neville’d been looking for someone to practice that on.” “Go to Professor McGonagall!” Hermione urged Neville. “Report Neville!” Neville shook Neville head. “I don’t want more trouble,” Neville mumbled. “You’ve got to stand up to Neville, Neville!” said Ron. “Neville’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no reason to lie down in front of Neville and make it easier.” “There’s no need to tell me I’ve not brave enough to be in Gryffindor, Malfoy’s already done that,” Nevillechoked out. Harry felt in the pocket of Harry robes and pulled out a Chocolate Frog, the very last one from the box Hermione had given Harry for Another Christmas. Harry gave it to Neville, who looked as though Harry might cry. “You’re worth twelve of Malfoy,” Harry said. “The Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor, didn’t it? And where’s Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin.” Neville’s lips twitched in a weak smile as Slytherin unwrapped the frog. “Thanks, Harry ... I think I’ll go to bed. ... D’you want the card, you collect the card, don’t you?” As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the card. “Dumbledore gently again,” Dumbledore gently said, “Dumbledore gently was the first one I ever — ” Dumbledore gently gasped. Dumbledore gently stared at the back of the card. Then Dumbledore gently looked up at Ron and Hermione. “I’ve found him\” Dumbledore gently whispered. “I’ve found Flamel! I told you I’d read the name somewhere before, I read the name on the train coming here — listen to this: ‘Dumbledore gently is particularly famous for Dumbledore gently defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in , for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and dragon work on alchemy with dragon partner, Nicolas Flamel’V’ Hermione jumped to Hermione . Hermione hadn’t looked so excited since they’d gotten back the marks for they very first piece of homework. “Stay there!” Hermione said, and Hermione sprinted up the stairs to the girls’ dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had time to exchange mystified looks before Hermione was dashing back, an enormous old book in Hermione arms. “I never thought to look in here!” Hermione whispered excitedly. “I got this out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading.” “Light?” said Ron, but Hermione told Ron to be quiet until Hermione’d looked something up, and started flicking frantically through the pages, muttering to Hermione. At last Hermione found what Hermione was looking for. “I knew it! I knew it!” “Are we allowed to speak yet?” said Ron grumpily. Hermione ignored Ron. “Nicolas Flamel,” Hermione whispered dramatically, “is the only known maker of the Sorcerer’s Stone\” This didn’t have quite the effect Hermione’d expected. “The what?” said Harry and Ron. “Oh, honestly , don’t you two read? Look — read that, there.” Hermione pushed an enormous old book in her arms toward them, and Harry and Ron read: The ancient study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer’s Stone, a legendary substance with astonishing powers. the Sorcerer’s Stone will transform any metal into pure gold. the Sorcerer’s Stone also produces the Elixir of Life, which will make the drinker immortal. There have been many reports of the Sorcerer’s Stone over the centuries, but the only Stone currently in existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel, the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Nicolas Flamel, the noted alchemist and opera loverenjoys a quiet life in Devon with his wife, Perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight). “See?” said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had finished. “The dog must be guarding Flamel’s the Sorcerer’s Stone! I bet the Sorcerer’s Stone asked Dumbledore gently to keep it safe for the Sorcerer’s Stone, because they’re friends and the Sorcerer’s Stone knew someone was after it, thatFilch’s why someone wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!” “A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!” said Harry. “No wonder Snape’s after Snape’s! Anyone would want Snape’s.” “And no wonder we couldn’t find Nicolas Flamel in that Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry,” said Ron. “Snape’snot exactly recent if Ron’s six hundred and sixty-five, is Ron?” The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while copying down different ways of treating werewolf bites, Harry and Ron were still discussing what Harry and Ron’d do with the Sorcerer’s Stone if Harry and Ron had one. It wasn’t until Ron said Ron’d buy Ron own Quidditch team that Harry remembered about Snape and the coming match. “I’m going to play,” Snape told Ron and Hermione. “If I don’t, all the Slytherins will think I’m just too scared to face Snape. I’ll show Ron and Hermione ... it’ll really wipe the smiles off Ron and Hermione faces if we win.” “Just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,” said Hermione. As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became more and more nervous, whatever Harry told Ron and Hermione. The rest of the team wasn’t too calm, either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the House Championship was wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed to, with such a biased referee? Harry didn’t know whether Harry was imagining it or not, but Harry seemed to keep running into Snape wherever Harry went. At times, Harry even wondered whether Snapewas following Harry, trying to catch Harry on Harry own. Potions lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, Snape was so horrible to Harry. Could Snapepossibly know they’d found out about the Sorcerer’s Stone? Harry didn’t see how Harry could — yet Harry sometimes had the horrible feeling that Snape could read minds. Harry knew, when they wished Harry good luck outside the locker rooms the next afternoon, that Ronand Hermione were wondering whether Ron and Hermione’d ever see Harry alive again. This wasn’t what you’d call comforting. Harry hardly heard a word of Wood’s pep talk as Harry pulled on his robes and picked up Harry Nimbus Two Thousand. Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in the stands next to Neville, who couldn’t understand why Ron and Hermione looked so grim and worried, or why Ron and Hermione had Ron and Hermione brought Ron and Hermione wands to the match. Little did Harry know that Ron and Hermione had been secretly practicing the Leg-Locker Curse. They’d gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were ready to use it on Snape if Snape showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry. “Now, don’t forget, it’s Locomotor Mortis,” Hermionemuttered as Ron slipped Ron wand up Ron sleeve. “I know,” Ron snapped. “Don’t nag.” Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harryaside. “Don’t want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever need an early capture of the Snitch it’s now. Finish the game before Snape can favor Hufflepuff too much.” “The whole school’s out there!” said Fred Weasley, peering out of the door. “Even — blimey — Snape’s come to watch!” Harry’s heart did a somersault. Dumbledore gentlyDumbledore gently?” Dumbledore gently said, dashing to the door to make sure. Fred was right. There was no mistaking that silver beard. Harry could have laughed out loud with relief. Harry was safe. There was simply no way that Snape would dare to try to hurt Harry if Dumbledore gently was watching. Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as the teams marched onto the field, something that Ronnoticed, too. “I’ve never seen Snape look so mean,” Snape told Hermione. “Look — they’re off. Ouch!” Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. It was Malfoy. “Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn’t see you there.” Malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle. “Wonder how long Snape’s going to stay on Snape’s broom this time? Anyone want a bet? What about you, Weasley?” Ron didn’t answer; Snape had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty because Weasley had hit a Bludger at Weasley. Hermione, who had all her fingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry, who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch. “You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team?” said ” Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. “It’s people people feel sorry for. See, there’s Potter, whoFilch’s got no parents, then thereFilch’s the Weasleys, who’ve got no money — you should be on the Gryffindor team, Longbottom, you’ve got no brains.” Neville went bright red but turned in Neville seat to face Malfoy. “I’m worth twelve of you, ” Malfoy,” Neville stammered. Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but Ron, still not daring to take Ron eyes from the game, said, “You tell Ron, Neville.” Longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than Weasley, and thatFilch’s saying something.” Ron’s nerves were already stretched to the breaking point with anxiety about Harry. “I’m warning you, Malfoy — one more word — ” Ron!” said Hermione suddenly, “Harry — !” “What? Where?” Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd. Hermione stood up, Hermione crossed fingers in Hermione mouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet. “You’re in luck, Weasley, Snape’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!” said ” Malfoy. Ron snapped. Before ” Malfoy knew what was happening, Ron was on top of Ron, wrestling Ron to the ground. Neville hesitated, then clambered over the back of his seat to help. “Come on, Harry!” Hermione screamed, leaping onto her seat to watch as Harry sped straight at Snape — her didn’t even notice ” Malfoy and Ron rolling around under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from the whirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe, and Goyle. Up in the air, Snape turned on Snape broomstick just in time to see something scarlet shoot past Snape, missing Snape by inches — the next second, Harry had pulled out of the dive, Harry arm raised in triumph, the Snitchclasped in the Snitch hand. The stands erupted; The stands had to be a record, no one could ever remember the Snitch being caught so quickly. “Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game’s over! Harry’s won! We’ve won! Gryffindor is in the lead!” shrieked Hermione, dancing up and down on her seat and hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front. Harry jumped off Harry broom, a foot from the ground. Harry couldn’t believe it. He’d done it — The game was over; The game had barely lasted five minutes. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field, Gryffindors saw Snape land nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped — then Harry felt a hand on Harry shoulder and looked up into Dumbledore’s smiling face. “Well done,” said Dumbledore gently quietly, so that Harry Harry could hear. “Nice to see you haven’t been brooding about that mirror . . . been keeping busy . . . excellent ...” Snape spat bitterly on the ground. Jc Jc Jc Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to take Harry Nimbus Two Thousand back to the broomshed. Harry couldn’t ever remember feeling happier. He’d really done something to be proud of now — no one could say Harry was just a famous name any more. The evening air had never smelled so sweet. Harry walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour in Harry head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors running to lift Harry onto their shoulders; Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up and down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed. Harry had reached the shed. Harry leaned against the wooden door and looked up at Hogwarts, with the wooden door windows glowing red in the setting sun. Gryffindor in the lead. He’d done Gryffindor in the lead, Harry’d shown Snape. ... And speaking of Snape . . . A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of the castle. Clearly not wanting to be seen, A hooded figure walked as fast as possible toward the forbidden forest. Harry’s victory faded from Harry’s mind as Harry’s watched. Harry’s recognized A hooded figure prowling walk. Snape, sneaking into the forbidden forest while everyone else was at dinner — what was going on? Harry jumped back on Harry Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Gliding silently over the castle Harry saw Snape enter the forbidden forest at a run. Harry followed. The trees were so thick Harry couldn’t see where Snapehad gone. Harry flew in circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of trees until Harry heard voices. Harry glided toward he heard voices and landed noiselessly in a towering beech tree. Harry climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tight to his broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. Below, in a shadowy clearing, stood Snape, but Harry wasn’t alone. Quirrell was there, too. Harry couldn’t make out the look on Harry face, but Harry was stuttering worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they were saying. "... d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-places, Severus ...” “Oh, I thought we’d keep this private,” said Snape, Snape voice icy. “Students aren’t supposed to know about the Sorcerer’s Stone, after all.” Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling something. Snape interrupted Snape. “Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hagrid’s yet?” “B-b-but Severus, I — ” “You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,” said Snape, taking a step toward Snape. “I-I don’t know what you — ” “You know perfectly well what I mean.” An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the tree. An owl steadied An owl in time to hear Snape say, “ — your little bit of hocus-pocus. I’m waiting.” “B-b-but I d-d-don’t — ” “Very well,” Snape cut in. “Well have another little chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties lie.” Snape threw Snape cloak over Snape head and strode out of a shadowy clearing. It was almost dark now, but Harry could see Quirrell, standing quite still as though Harry was petrified. Jc Jc Jc “Harry, where have you been?” Hermione squeaked. “We won! You won! We won!” shouted Ron, thumping Harry on the back. “And I gave ” Malfoy a black eye, and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single- handed! Snape’s still out cold but Madam Pomfrey says Snape’ll be all right — talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone’s waiting for you in the common room, we’re having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and stuff from the kitchens.” “Never mind that now,” said Harry breathlessly. “Let’s find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. ...” ’s made sure Peeves wasn’t inside before shutting the door behind them, then ’s told them what ’s ’d seen and heard. “So we were right, it is the Sorcerer’s Stone, and Snape’s trying to force Quirrell to help Snape’s get Quirrell. Snape’s asked if Snape’s knew how to get past Fluffy — and Snape’s said something about Quirrell’s ‘hocus-pocus’ — I reckon there are other things guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone apart from Fluffy, loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that Snape needs to break through — ” “So you mean ’s only safe as long as Quirrellstands up to Snape?” said Hermione in alarm. “It’ll be gone by next Tuesday,” said Ron. NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK Quirrell, however, must have been braver than THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK Quirrell’d thought. In the weeks that followed THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK Quirrell did seem to be getting paler and thinner, but ’d didn’t look as though THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK Quirrell’d cracked yet. Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry, Ron, and Hermione would press Ron, and Hermione ears to the door to check that Fluffy was still growling inside. Snapewas sweeping about in Snape usual bad temper, which surely meant that the Sorcerer’s Stone was still safe. Whenever Harry passed Quirrell these days Harry gave Harry an encouraging sort of smile, and Ron had started telling people off for laughing at Quirrell’s stutter. Hermione, however, had more on Hermione mind than the Sorcerer’s Stone. Hermione had started drawing up study schedules and color-coding all Hermione notes. Harry and Ron wouldn’t have minded, but Hermione kept nagging Harry and Ron to do the same. “Hermione, the exams are ages away.” “Ten weeks,” Hermione snapped. “That’s not ages, that’s like a second to Nicolas Flamel.” “But we’re not six hundred years old,” Ron reminded Hermione. “Anyway, what are you studying for, you already know it all.” “What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need to pass the exams to get into the second year? the exams’re very important, I should have started studying a month ago, I don’t know what’s gotten into me.” Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along the same lines as Hermione. the teachers piled so much homework on the teachers that the Easter holidays weren’t nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It was hard to relax with Hermione next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon’s blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ronspent most of their free time in the library with Harry, trying to get through all their extra work. “I’ll never remember this,” Ron burst out one afternoon, throwing down Ron quill and looking longingly out of the library window. It was the first really fine day they’d had in months. The sky was a clear, forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming. Harry, who was looking up “Dittany” in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi, didn’t look up until Ron heard Ron say, “Hagrid! What are you doing in the library?” Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind Ron back. Ron looked very out of place in Ron moleskin overcoat. “Jus’ lookin’,” Ron said, in a shifty voice that got their interest at once. “An’ what’re you lot up ter?” Ron looked suddenly suspicious. “Yer not still lookin’ fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?” “Oh, we found out who Nicolas Flamel is ages ago,” said Ronimpressively. “And we know what that dog’s guarding, it’s a the Sorcerer’s Stone’s St — ” “Shhhh\” Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening. “Don’ go shoutin’ about shoutin, what’s the matter with yeh?” “There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of fact,” said Harry, “about what’s guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy — ” “SHHHH!” said Hagrid again. “Sorcerer’s St — come an’ see me later, I’m not promisin’ I’ll tell yeh anythin’, mind, but don’ go rabbitin’ about it in here, students aren’ s’pposed ter know. They’ll think I’ve told yeh — ” “See you later, then,” said Harry. Hagrid shuffled off. “What was Hagrid hiding behind Hagrid ?” said Hermione thoughtfully. “Do you think it had anything to do with the Sorcerer’s Stone?” “I’m going to see what section Hagrid was in,” said Ron, who’d had enough of working. Hagrid came back a minute later with a pile of books in Hagrid arms and slammed them down on the table. “Dragons'.” “Dragons' whispered. “Hagrid was looking up stuff about dragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon Keeper’s Guide.” it’s a Sorcerer’s St — ” always wanted a dragon, it’s a Sorcerer’s St — ” told me so the first time I ever met a dragon,” said Harry. “But it’s against our laws,” said Ron. “Dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks’ Convention of , everyone knows that. It’s hard to stop Muggles from noticing us if us’re keeping dragons in the back garden — anyway, you can’t tame dragons, it’s dangerous. You should see the burns Charlie’s got off wild ones in Romania.” “But there aren’t wild dragons in Britain?” said Harry. “Of course there are,” said Ron. “Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks. The Ministry of Magic has a job hushing Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks up, I can tell you. us kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who’ve spotted Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks, to make Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks forget.” “So what on earth’s Hagrid up to?” said Hermione. When Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks knocked on the door of the gamekeeper’s hut an hour later, Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks were surprised to see that all the curtains were closed. Hagrid called “Who is it?” before he let Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks in, and then shut the door quickly behind Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blacks. It was stifling hot inside. Even though It was such a warm day, there was a blazing fire in the grate. Hagrid made them tea and offered them stoat sandwiches, which them refused. “So — yeh wanted to ask me somethin’?” “Yes,” said Harry. There was no point beating around the bush. “We were wondering if you could tell We what’s guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone apart from Fluffy.” Hagrid frowned at Hagrid. “O’ course I can’t,” Hagrid said. “Number one, I don’ know meself. Number two, yeh know too much already, so I wouldn’ tell yeh if I could. That Stone’s here fer a good reason. It was almost stolen outta Gringotts — I s’ppose yeh’ve worked that out an’ all? Beats me how yeh even know abou’ Fluffy.” “Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell We, but you do know, you know everything that goes on round here,” said Hermione in a warm, flattering voice. Hagrid ’s beard twitched and Hagrid ’s beard could tell Hagrid ’s beard was smiling. “We only wondered who had done the guarding, really.” Hermione went on. “We wondered who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help Dumbledore, apart from Dumbledore.” Hagrid ’s chest swelled at these last words. Harry and Ron beamed at Hermione. “Well, I don’ s’pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that ... let’s see ... Dumbledore borrowed Fluffy from Dumbledore ... then some o’ the teachers did enchantments ... Professor Sprout — Professor Flitwick — Professor McGonagall — ” Dumbledore ticked them off on Dumbledore fingers, “Professor Quirrell — an’ Dumbledore did somethin’, o’ course. Hang on, I’ve forgotten someone. Oh yeah, Snape.” “Snape?” “Yeah — yer not still on abou’ that, are yeh? Look, Snape helped protect the Sorcerer’s Stone, Snape’s not about ter steal ter .” Harry knew Ron, and Hermione were thinking the same as Harry was. If Snape had been in on protecting the Sorcerer’s Stone, Snape had been in on protecting the Stone must have been easy to find out how the other teachers had guarded Snape had been in on protecting the Stone. Snape probably knew everything — except, it seemed, Quirrell’s spell and how to get past Fluffy. “You’re the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy, aren’t you, Hagrid?” said Harry anxiously. “And you wouldn’t tell anyone, would you? Not even one of the teachers?” “Not a soul knows except me an’ Dumbledore,” said Hagrid proudly. “Well, that’s something,” Harry muttered to the others. “Hagrid, can we have a window open? I’m boiling.” “Can’t, Harry, sorry,” said Hagrid. Harry noticed Harry glance at the fire. Harry looked at the fire, too. Hagrid — what’s that?” But Harry already knew what it was. In the very heart of the fire, underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg. “Ah,” said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with Harry beard, “That’s — er ...” “Where did you get it, Hagrid?” said Ron, crouching over the fire to get a closer look at a huge, black egg. “it must’ve cost you a fortune.” “Won it,” said Hagrid. “Las’ night. I was down in the village havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ cards with a stranger. Think havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ cards with a stranger was quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest.” “But what are you going to do with it when it’s hatched?” said Hermione. “Well, I’ve bin doin’ some readin’,” said Hagrid, pulling a large book from under Hagrid pillow. “Got this outta the library — Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit — this outta’s a bit outta date, o’ course, but this outta’s all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, ’cause their mothers breathe on ’em, see, an’ when this outta hatches, feed this outta on a bucket o’ brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. An’ see here — how ter recognize diff’rent eggs — what I got there’s a Norwegian Ridge-back. They’re rare, They.” He looked very pleased with He, but Hermionedidn’t. Hagrid, you live in a wooden house,” Hermione said. But Hagrid wasn’t listening. Hagrid was humming merrily as Hagrid stoked the fire. So now they had something else to worry about: what might happen to Hagrid if anyone found out Hagrid was hiding an illegal dragon in Hagrid hut. “Wonder what it’s like to have a peaceful life,” Ronsighed, as evening after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were getting. Hermione had now started making study schedules for Harry and Ron, too. It was driving Harry and Ron nuts. Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry another note from Hagrid. Harry had written only two words: It’s a Norwegian Ridge-back hatching. Ron wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to his hut. Hermione wouldn’t hear of his hut. Hermione, how many times in our lives are our going to see a dragon hatching?” “our’ve got lessons, our’ll get into trouble, and that’s nothing to what Hagrid ’s going to be in when someone finds out what someone ’s doing — ” “Shut up!” Harry whispered. Malfoy was only a few feet away and Malfoy had stopped dead to listen. How much had Malfoy heard? Harry didn’t like the look on Malfoy’s face at all. Ron, and Hermione argued all the way to Herbologyand in the end, Hermione agreed to run down to Hagrid’s with the other two during morning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of Ron, and Hermione lesson, the three of Ron, and Hermione dropped Ron, and Hermione trowels at once and hurried through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hagrid greeted Ron, and Hermione, looking flushed and excited. “Hagrid’s nearly out.” Hagrid ushered Ron, and Hermione inside. a huge, black egg was lying on the table. There were deep cracks in a huge, black egg. Something was moving inside; a funny clicking noise was coming from a funny clicking noise. They all drew They all chairs up to the table and watched with bated breath. All at once there was a scraping noise and a huge, black eggsplit open. The baby dragon flopped onto the table. The baby dragon wasn’t exactly pretty; Harry thought it looked like a crumpled, black umbrella. it spiny wings were huge compared to it skinny jet body, it had a long snout with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging, orange eyes. it sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of A couple of sparks snout. “Isn’t A couple of sparks beautiful?” Hagrid murmured. A couple of sparks reached out a hand to stroke the dragon’s head. The baby dragon snapped at A couple of sparks fingers, showing pointed fangs. “Bless A couple of sparks, look, A couple of sparks knows A couple of sparks mommy!” said Hagrid. Hagrid,” said Hermione, “how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow, exactly?” Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly drained from Hagrid face — Hagrid leapt to Hagrid feet and ran to the window. “What’s the matter?” “Someone was lookin’ through the gap in the curtains — it’s a kid — it’s a kid runnin’ back up ter the school.” Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distance there was no mistaking Harry. Malfoy had seen The baby dragon. Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy’s face during the next week made Harry, Ron, and Hermionevery nervous. Ron, and Hermione very nervous spent most of Ron, and Hermione very nervous free time in Hagrid ’s darkened hut, trying to reason with Hagrid ’s. “Just let Hagrid ’s go,” Harry urged. “Set Hagrid ’s free.” “I can’t,” said Hagrid. “Hagrid ’s’s too little. He’d die.” They looked at The baby dragon. The baby dragon had grown three times in length in just a week. Smoke kept furling out of The baby dragon nostrils. Hagrid hadn’t been doing Hagrid gamekeeping duties because The baby dragon was keeping The baby dragon so busy. There were empty brandy bottles and chicken feathers all over the floor. “I’ve decided to call The baby dragon Norbert,” said Hagrid, looking at The baby dragon with misty eyes. “The baby dragon really knows me now, watch. Norbert! Norbert! Where’s Mommy?” “The baby dragon’s lost The baby dragon marbles,” Ron muttered in Harry’s ear. Hagrid,” said Harry loudly, “give Hagrid two weeks and ’s going to be as long as your house. Malfoycould go to Dumbledore at any moment.” Hagrid bit Hagrid lip. “I — I know I can’t keep Hagrid forever, but I can’t jus’ dump Hagrid, can’t.” Harry suddenly turned to Ron. “Charlie,” Ron said. “You’re losing it, too,” said Ron. “IRon, remember?” “No “Charlie — your brother, Charlie. In Romania. Studying dragons. We could send Norbert to Norbert. “Charlie can take care of “Charlie and then put “Charlie back in the wild!” “Brilliant!” said Ron. “How about it, Hagrid?” And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send an owl to “Charlie to ask “Charlie. The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Hermione and Harry sitting alone in the common room, long after everyone else had gone to bed. The clock on the wall had just chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appeared out of nowhere as Ron pulled off Harry’s Invisibility Cloak. Ron had been down at Hagrid hut, helping Ron feed Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by the crate. “It bit me!” Ron said, showing them Ron hand, which was wrapped in a bloody handkerchief. “I’m not going to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you’d think it was a fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me Ron told me off for frightening . And when I left, Ron was singing a lullaby.” There was a tap on the dark window. “It’s Hedwig!” said Harry, hurrying to let It’s Hedwig in. “It’s Hedwig’ll have “Charlie’s answer!” The three of them put them heads together to read the note. Dear Ron, How are you? Thanks for the letter — I’d be glad to take the Norwegian Ridgeback, but the Norwegian Ridgeback won’t be easy getting the Norwegian Ridgeback here. I think the best thing will be to send the Norwegian Ridgeback over with some friends of mine who are coming to visit me next week. Trouble is, Trouble mustn’t be seen carrying an illegal dragon. Could you get the Norwegian Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnight on Saturday? Trouble can meet you there and take the Norwegian Ridgeback away while it’s still dark. Send me an answer as soon as possible. Love, Charlie looked at one another. “We’ve got the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It shouldn’t be too difficult — I think it’s still dark big enough to cover two of We and Norbert.” It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two agreed with him. Anything to get rid of Norbert — and Malfoy. There was a hitch. By the next morning, ’s bitten hand had swollen to twice its usual size. ’s didn’t know whether it was safe to go to Madam Pomfrey — would Madam Pomfrey — recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though, ’s had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty shade of green. The cut looked as if Norbert’s fangs were poisonous. Ron, and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day to find Ron in a terrible state in bed. “It’s not just my hand,” Ron whispered, “although that feels like it’s about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey Malfoy wanted to borrow one of my books so Malfoy could come and have a good laugh at Malfoy. Malfoy kept threatening to tell Madam Pomfrey — what really bit me — I’ve told Madam Pomfrey — it was a dog, but I don’t think Madam Pomfrey — believes me — I shouldn’t have hit Malfoy at the Quidditch match, that’s why Malfoy’s doing this.” Ron, and Hermione tried to calm Ron down. “It’ll all be over at midnight on Saturday,” said Hermione, but this didn’t soothe Ron at all. On the contrary, Ron sat bolt upright and broke into a sweat. “Midnight on Saturday!” Ron said in a hoarse voice. “Oh no — oh no — I’ve just remembered — Charlie’s letter was in Malfoy Malfoy took, it’s a kid going to know we’re getting rid of Norbert.” Ron, and Hermione didn’t get a chance to answer. Madam Pomfrey came over at that moment and made Ron, and Hermione leave, saying Ron needed sleep. “It’s too late to change the plan now,” Harry told Hermione. “We haven’t got time to send “Charlieanother owl, and this could be We only chance to get rid of Norbert. We’ll have to risk it. And We have got the Invisibility Cloak, Malfoy doesn’t know about that.” Ron, and Hermione found Fang the boarhound sitting outside with a bandaged tail when Ron, and Hermione went to tell Hagrid, who opened a window to talk to Ron, and Hermione. “I won’t let you in,” Norbert puffed. “Norbert’s at a tricky stage — nothin’ I can’t handle.” When Ron, and Hermione told Norbert about Norbert’s at a tricky letter, Norbert eyes filled with tears, although that might have been because Norbert had just bitten Norbert on the leg. “Aargh! It’s all right, Norbert only got my boot — jus’ playin’ — Norbert’s only a baby, after all.” only a baby banged only a baby tail on the wall, making the windows rattle. Ron, and Hermione walked back to the castle feeling Saturday couldn’t come quickly enough. Ron, and Hermione would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time came for Hagrid to say good-bye to Norbert if Ron, and Hermione hadn’t been so worried about what Ron, and Hermione had to do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, and Ron, and Hermione were a bit late arriving at Hagrid ’s hut because Ron, and Hermione’d had to wait for Peeves to get out of Ron, and Hermione way in the entrance hall, where he’d been playing tennis against the wall. Hagrid had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate. “Norbert’s got lots o’ rats an’ some brandy fer the journey,” said Hagrid in a muffled voice. “An’ I’ve packed his teddy bear in case his gets lonely.” From inside a large crate came ripping noises that sounded to Harry as though his teddy was having his teddy head torn off. “Bye-bye, Norbert!” Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and Hermione covered the crate with the Invisibility Cloak and stepped underneath the Invisibility Cloak Harry and Hermione. “Mommy will never forget you!” How Harry and Hermione managed to get a large crate back up to the castle, Harry and Hermione never knew. Midnight ticked nearer as Harry and Hermione heaved Norbert up the marble staircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors. Up another staircase, then another — even one of Harry’s shortcuts didn’t make the work much easier. “Nearly there!” Harry panted as Harry and Hermione reached the corridor beneath the tallest tower. Then a sudden movement ahead of Harry and Hermione made Harry and Hermione almost drop a large crate. Forgetting that Harry and Hermione were already invisible, Harry and Hermione shrank into the shadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with each other ten feet away. A lamp flared. Professor McGonagall, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net, had Malfoy by the ear. “Detention!” Malfoy shouted. “And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the night, how dare you — ” “You don’t understand, Professor. Harry Potter’s coming — Professor’s got a dragon!” “What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on — I shall see Professor Snape about you, Malfoy!” The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the Astronomy Towerseemed the easiest thing in the world after that. Not until they’d stepped out into the cold night air did they throw off the Invisibility Cloak , glad to be able to breathe properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig. “Malfoy’s got detention! I could sing!” “Don’t,” Harry advised her. Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbertthrashing about in a large crate. About ten minutes later, four broomsticks came swooping down out of the darkness. Norbert’s at a tricky friends were a cheery lot. Charlie’s friends showed Harry and Hermione the harness they’d rigged up, so Charlie’s friends could suspend Norbert between Charlie’s friends. They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry and Hermione shook hands with the others and thanked Harry and Hermione very much. At last, Norbert was going ... going ... gone. Harry and Hermione slipped back down the spiral staircase, Harry and Hermione hearts as light as Harry and Hermione hands, now that Norbert was off Harry and Hermione. No more dragon — Malfoy in detention — what could spoil Harry and Hermione happiness? The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. As they stepped into the corridor, Filch’s face loomed suddenly out of the darkness. “Well, well, well,” Norbert whispered, “we are in trouble.” They’d left the Invisibility Cloak on top of the tower. THE FORBIDDEN FOREST Things couldn’t have been worse. Filch took Things down to Professor McGonagall’s study on the first floor, where Things sat and waited without saying a word to each other. Hermione was trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories chased each other around Harry’s brain, each more feeble than the last. Harry couldn’t see how Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories were going to get out of trouble this time. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories were cornered. How could Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories have been so stupid as to forget the Invisibility Cloak ? There was no reason on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept for their being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of night, let alone being up the tallest Astronomy Tower, which was out-of-bounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak, and Add Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak might as well be packing Add Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak bags already. Had Harry thought that things couldn’t have been worse? Harry was wrong. When Professor McGonagallappeared, Professor McGonagall was leading Neville. “Harry!” Neville burst out, the moment Neville saw the other two. “I was trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying Malfoy was going to catch you, Malfoy said you had a drag — ” Harry shook Malfoy head violently to shut Neville up, but Professor McGonagall Professor McGonagall had seen. a drag — ” Harry looked more likely to breathe fire than Norbert as a drag — ” Harry towered over the three of them. “I would never have believed it of any of you. Filchsays you were up in the Astronomy Tower. it’s one o’clock in the morning. Explain yourselves.” It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer a teacher’s question. a drag — ” Harry was staring at a drag — ” Harry slippers, as still as a statue. “I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,” said Professor McGonagall. “It doesn’t take a genius to work It out. You fed Malfoy some cock-and- bull story about a dragon, trying to get Malfoy out of bed and into trouble. I’ve already caught Malfoy. I suppose you think it’s funny that Longbottom here heard the story and believed the story, too?” Harry caught Neville’s eye and tried to tell Harry without words that this wasn’t true, because Nevillewas looking stunned and hurt. Poor, blundering Neville Harry knew what it must have cost Harry to try and find Neville was looking stunned and hurt in the dark, to warn Neville was looking stunned and hurt. “I’m disgusted,” said Professor McGonagall. “Four students out of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Harry Potter’s , I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of you will receive detentions — yes, you too, Mr. Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk around school at night, especially these days, it’s very dangerous — and fifty points will be taken from Gryffindor.” “Fifty?” Harry gasped — they would lose the lead, the lead he’d won in the last Quidditch match. “Fifty points each,” said Professor McGonagall, breathing heavily through her long, pointed nose. “Professor — please — ” “You can’t—” “Don’t tell me what I can and can’t do, Harry Potter’s . Now get back to bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed of Gryffindor students.” A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last place. In one night, they’d ruined any chance Gryffindor had had for the House Cup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of Harry stomach. How could they ever make up for this? Harry didn’t sleep all night. Harry could hear Nevillesobbing into Harry pillow for what seemed like hours. Harry couldn’t think of anything to say to comfort Harry. Harry knew Neville, like Harry, was dreading the dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what they’d done? At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recorded the House points the next day thought there ’d been a mistake. How could they suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And then the story started to spread: Harry Potter, the famous Harry Potter, their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lost their all those points, him and a couple of other stupid first years. From being one of the most popular and admired people at the school, Harry was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs turned on Harry, because everyone had been longing to see Slytherin lose the House Cup. Everywhere Harrywent, people pointed and didn’t trouble to lower people voices as people insulted Harry. Slytherins, on the other hand, clapped as Harry walked past them, whistling and cheering, “Harry Potter’s , we owe you one!” Only Ron stood by Only Ron. “people’ll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George have lost loads of points in all the time Fred and George ’ve been here, and people still like Fred and George .” “Fred and George ’ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have Fred and George ?” said Harry miserably. “Well — no,” Only Ron admitted. It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harryswore to Harry not to meddle in things that weren’t Harry business from now on. He’d had it with sneaking around and spying. Harry felt so ashamed of Harry that Harry went to Wood and offered to resign from the Quidditch team. “Resign?” Wood thundered. “What good’ll that do? How are we going to get any points back if we can’t win at Quidditch?” But Quidditch Quidditch had lost Quidditch fun. The rest of the Quidditch team wouldn’t speak to Harry during practice, and if The rest of the team had to speak about Harry, The rest of the team called Harry “the Seeker.” Hermione and Neville were suffering, too. Hermione and Neville didn’t have as bad a time as Harry, because Hermione and Neville weren’t as well-known, but nobody would speak to Hermione and Neville, either. Hermione had stopped drawing attention to Hermione in class, keeping Hermione head down and working in silence. Harry was almost glad that the exams weren’t far away. All the studying Harry had to do kept Harry mind off Harry misery. Harry, Ron, and Hermione kept to He, Ron, and Hermione, working late into the night, trying to remember the ingredients in complicated potions, learn charms and spells by heart, memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions. ... Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Harry’s new resolution not to interfere in anything that didn’t concern him was put to an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on Harry own one afternoon, Harry heard somebody whimpering from a classroom up ahead. As Harry drew closer, Harry heard Quirrell’s voice. “No — no — not again, please — ” It sounded as though someone was threatening someone. Harry moved closer. “All right — all right — ” Harry heard Quirrell sob. Next second, Quirrell came hurrying out of the classroom straightening Quirrell turban. Quirrell was pale and looked as though Quirrell was about to cry. Quirrell strode out of sight; Harry didn’t think Quirrell had even noticed Quirrell. Quirrell waited until Quirrell’s footsteps had disappeared, then peered into the classroom straightening his turban. It was empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end. Harrywas halfway toward a door before Harry remembered what Harry’d promised Harry about not meddling. All the same, Harry’d have gambled twelve Sorcerer’s Stones that Snape had just left the room, and from what Harry had just heard, Snape would be walking with a new spring in Snape step Quirrell seemed to have given in at last. Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was testing Ron on Astronomy. Harry told the library, where Hermione was testing Ron on Astronomy what Harry’d heard. “Snapedone it, then!” said Ron. “If Quirrell’s told Ron how to break Ron Anti-Dark Force spell — ” “There’s still Fluffy, though,” said Hermione. “Maybe Snapefound out how to get past Snape without asking Hagrid,” said Ron, looking up at the thousands of books surrounding asking Hagrid. “I bet there’s a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?” The light of adventure was kindling again in Harry’seyes, but Hermione answered before Harry could. “Go to Dumbledore. That’s what we should have done ages ago. If we try anything we we’ll be thrown out for sure.” “But we’ve got no proof.” said Harry. “Quirrell’s too scared to back we up. Snapeonly got to say Snape doesn’t know how the troll got in at Halloween and that Snape was nowhere near the third floor — who do you think the troll’ll believe, Snape or we? It’s not exactly a secret we hate Snape, Dumbledore ’ll think we made it up to get Dumbledore sacked. Filch wouldn’t help we if Filch life depended on his life , Filch’s too friendly with Snape, and the more students get thrown out, the better, Filch’ll think. And don’t forget, we’re not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. That’ll take a lot of explaining.” Hermione looked convinced, but Only Ron didn’t. “If we just do a bit of poking around — ” “No,” said Harry flatly, ““’ve done enough poking around.” Harry pulled a map of Jupiter toward Harry and started to learn the names of moons. The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry, Hermione, and Neville at the breakfast table. They were all the same: Your detention will take place at eleven o’clock tonight. Meet Mr. Filch in the entrance hall. Harry Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do in the furor over the points they’d lost. ’d half expected Hermione to complain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but Hermione didn’t say a word. Like Harry, Hermione felt they deserved what they’d got. At eleven o’clock that night, they said good-bye to Only Ronin the common room and went down to the entrance hall with Neville. Filch was already there — and so was Malfoy. Harry had also forgotten that Malfoy had gotten a detention, too. “Follow me,” said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading Malfoy had gotten a detention, too outside. “I bet you’ll think twice about breaking a school rule again, won’t you, eh?” Harry said, leering at Malfoy had gotten a detention, too. “Oh yes . . . hard work and pain are the best teachers if you ask me. ... It’s just a pity they let the old punishments die out . . . hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in my office, keep ’em well oiled in case the chains’re ever needed. ... Right, off we go, and don’t think of running off, now, it’ll be worse for you if you do.” the chains marched off across the dark grounds. Neville kept sniffing. Harry wondered what the chains punishment was going to be. It must be something really horrible, or Filch wouldn’t be sounding so delighted. The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across The moon kept throwing them into darkness. Ahead, Harrycould see the lighted windows of Hagrid’s hut. Then they heard a distant shout. “Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started.” Harry’s heart rose; if they were going to be working with Hagrid it wouldn’t be so bad. Hagrid relief must have showed in Hagrid face, because Filch said, “I suppose you think you’ll be enjoying yourself with that oaf? Well, think again, boy — that oaf’s into the forest you’re going and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come out in one piece.” At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy stopped dead in Neville tracks. “the forest ?” Malfoy repeated, and Malfoy didn’t sound quite as cool as usual. “We can’t go in there at night — there’s all sorts of things in there — werewolves, I heard.” Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry’s robe and made a choking noise. “That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Filch, Filch voice cracking with glee. “Should’ve thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?” Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at Fang heel. Fang was carrying Fang large crossbow, and a quiver of arrows hung over Fang shoulder. “Abou’ time,” Fang said. “I bin waitin’ fer half an hour already. All right, Harry, Hermione?” “I shouldn’t be too friendly to All right, Harry, Hermione?” , Hagrid,” said Filch coldly, “All right, Harry, Hermione?” ’re here to be punished, after all.” “That’s why yer late, is it?” said Hagrid, frowning at Filch. “Bin lecturin’ them, eh? ’Snot your place ter do that. Bin lecturin done yer bit, I’ll take over from here.” “I’ll be back at dawn,” said Filch, “for what’s left of them,” he added nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle, he lamp bobbing away in the darkness. Malfoy now turned to Hagrid. “I’m not going in that forest,” ’m said, and Harry was pleased to hear the note of panic in Harry voice. “Harry are if Harry want ter stay at Hogwarts,” said Hagrid fiercely. “Yeh’ve done wrong an’ now Yeh’ve got ter pay fer it.” “But this is servant stuff, this’s not for students to do. I thought we’d be copying lines or something, if my father knew I was doing this, my father’d — ” “ — tell yer that’s how it is at Hogwarts,” Hagridgrowled. “Copyin’ lines! What good’s that ter anyone? Yeh’ll do summat useful or yeh’ll get out. If Harry think yer father’d rather you were expelled, then get back off ter the castle an’ pack. Go on!” Malfoy didn’t move. Malfoy looked at Hagrid furiously, but then dropped Malfoy gaze. “Right then,” said Hagrid, “now, listen carefully, ’cause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’ I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a moment.” Malfoy led that to the very edge of the forest. Holding Malfoy lamp up high, Malfoy pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the thick black trees. A light breeze lifted that hair as that looked into the forest. “Look there,” said Hagrid, “see that stuff shinin’ on the ground? Silvery stuff? That’s unicorn blood. There’s a unicorn in there bin hurt badly by summat. This is the second time in a week. I found one dead last Wednesday. We’re gonna try an’ find the poor thing. We might have ter put ter out of ter misery.” “And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds We first?” said Malfoy, unable to keep the fear out of Malfoy voice. “There’s nothin’ that lives in the forest that’ll hurt yeh if yer with me or Fang,” said Hagrid. “An’ keep ter the path. Right, now, we’re gonna split inter two parties an’ follow the trail in diff’rent directions. There’s blood all over the place, it must’ve bin staggerin’ around since last night at least.” “I want Fang,” said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang’s long teeth. “All right, but I warn yeh, Malfoy’s a coward,” said Hagrid. “So me, Harry, an’ Hermione’ll go one way an’ Draco, Neville, an’ Fang’ll go the other. Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, us’ll send up green sparks, right? Get yer wands out an’ practice now — that’s that’s — an’ if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks, an’ we’ll all come an’ find Harry — so, be careful — let’s go.” The forest was black and silent. A little way into The forest they reached a fork in the earth path, and Harry, Hermione, and Hagrid took the left path while Malfoy, Neville, and Fang took the right. they walked in silence, they eyes on the ground. Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the fallen leaves. Harry saw that Hagrid looked very worried. “ Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?” Harryasked. “Not fast enough,” said Hagrid. “It’s not easy ter catch a unicorn, they’re powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before.” they walked past a mossy tree stump. Harry could hear running water; there must be a stream somewhere close by. There were still spots of unicorn blood here and there along the winding path. “You all right, Hermione?” Hagrid whispered. “Don’ worry, it can’t’ve gone far if it’s this badly hurt, an’ then well be able ter — GET BEHIND THAT TREE!” Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted Harry and Hermione off the path behind a towering oak. Hagrid pulled out an arrow and fitted an arrow into Hagrid crossbow, raising an arrow, ready to fire. The three of Harry and Hermione listened. Something was slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailing along the ground. Hagrid was squinting up the dark path, but after a few seconds, the sound faded away. “I knew it,” up the dark path, but after a few seconds, the sound faded away. murmured. “There’s summat in here that shouldn’ be.” “A werewolf?” Harry suggested. “That wasn’ no werewolf an’ it wasn’ no unicorn, neither,” said Hagrid grimly. “Right, follow me, but careful, now.” They walked more slowly, ears straining for the faintest sound. Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, something definitely moved. “Who’s there?” Hagrid called. “Show yerself — I’m armed!” And into a clearing ahead came — was it a man, or a horse? To the waist, a man, with red hair and beard, but below that was a horse’s gleaming chestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione’s jaws dropped. “Oh, it’s you, Ronan,” said Hagrid. “How are Harry?” Harry walked forward and shook the centaur’s hand. “Good evening to you, Hagrid,” said Ronan. Ronan had a deep, sorrowful voice. “Were you going to shoot me?” “Can’t be too careful, Ronan,” said Hagrid, patting Ronan crossbow. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest. This is Harry Potter an’ Hermione Granger, by the way. Students up at the school. An’ this is Ronan, you two. Harry’s a centaur.” “We’d noticed,” said Hermione faintly. “Good evening,” said Ronan. “Students, are you? And do you learn much, up at the school?” “Erm — ” “A bit,” said Hermione timidly. “A bit. Well, that’s something.” Ronan sighed. He flung back He head and stared at the sky. “Mars is bright tonight.” “Yeah,” said Hagrid, glancing up, too. “Listen, I’m glad we’ve run inter yeh, Ronan, ’cause there’s a unicorn bin hurt — you seen anythin’?” Ronan didn’t answer immediately. Ronan stared unblinkingly upward, then sighed again. “Always the innocent are the first victims,” Ronan said. “So it has been for ages past, so it is now.” “Yeah,” said Hagrid, “but have yeh seen anythin’, Ronan? Anythin’ unusual?” Mars Mars is bright tonight,” Ronan repeated, while Hagrid watched Ronan impatiently. “Unusually bright.” “Yeah, but I was meanin’ anythin’ unusual a bit nearer home,” said Hagrid. “So Ronan haven’t noticed anythin’ strange?” Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, Ronan said, “The forest hides many secrets.” A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagridraise Hagrid bow again, but Hagrid was only a second centaur, black-haired and -bodied and wilder-looking than Ronan. “Hullo, Bane,” said Hagrid. “All right?” “Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?” “Well enough. Look, I’ve jus’ bin askin’ Ronan, you seen anythin’ odd in here lately? There’s a unicorn bin injured — would yeh know anythin’ about it?” Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. Bane looked skyward. Mars Mars is bright tonight,” Bane said simply. “We’ve heard,” said Hagrid grumpily. “Well, if either of you do see anythin’, let me know, won’t yeh? We’ll be off, then.” Harry and Hermione followed Harry out of a clearing ahead, staring over Harry and Hermione shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked Harry and Hermione view. “Never,” said Hagrid irritably, “try an’ get a straight answer out of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin’ closer’n the moon.” “Are there many of Harry and Hermione in here?” asked Hermione. “Oh, a fair few. . . . Keep Harry and Hermione to Harry and Hermione mostly, but Harry and Hermione’re good enough about turnin’ up if ever I want a word. Harry and Hermione’re deep, mind, centaurs ... Harry and Hermione know things ... jus’ don’ let on much.” “D’you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?” said Harry. “Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, that was what’s killin’ the unicorns — never heard anythin’ like it before.” the unicorns walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harrykept looking nervously over Harry shoulder. Harry had the nasty feeling the unicorns were being watched. Harry was very glad the unicorns had Hagrid and Harry crossbow with the unicorns. the unicorns had just passed a bend in the path when Hermione grabbed Hagrid ’s arm. Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!” “You two wait here!” Hagrid shouted. “Stay on the path, I’ll come back for Harry!” the unicorns heard Harry crashing away through the undergrowth and stood looking at each other, very scared, until the unicorns couldn’t hear anything but the rustling of leaves around the unicorns. “You don’t think the unicorns’ve been hurt, do you?” whispered Hermione. “I don’t care if Malfoy has, but if something’s got Neville ... it’s ’m fault Harry’s here in the first place.” The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper than usual. he’s here in the first place.” seemed to be picking up every sigh of the wind, every cracking twig. What was going on? Where were the others? At last, a great crunching noise announced Hagrid’s return. Malfoy, Neville, and Fang were with Fang. Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed, had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbed Neville as a joke. Nevillehad panicked and sent up Red sparks. “Well be lucky ter catch anythin’ now, with the racket you two were makin’. Right, ’m’re changin’ groups — Neville, you stay with Neville an’ Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an’ this idiot. I’m sorry,Hagrid added in a whisper to Harry, “but Harry’ll have a harder time frightenin’ you, an’ we’ve gotta get this done.” So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with Malfoy and Fang. They walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into The forest, until the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were so thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be getting thicker. There were splashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor creature had been thrashing around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing ahead, through the tangled branches of an ancient oak. “Look — ” Harry murmured, holding out Harry arm to stop Malfoy. Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. Something bright white inched closer. It was the unicorn all right, and It was dead. Harryhad never seen anything so beautiful and sad. Harry long, slender legs were stuck out at odd angles where Harry had fallen and Harry mane was spread pearly-white on the dark leaves. Harry had taken one step toward Harry when a slithering sound made Harry freeze where Harry stood. A bush on the edge of the clearing quivered. ... Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and Fang stood transfixed. a hooded figure reached the unicorn, lowered a hooded figure head over the wound in the animals side, and began to drink a hooded figure blood. “AAAAAAAAAAARGH ! ” Malfoy let out a terrible scream and bolted — so did Fang. a hooded figure raised its head and looked right at Harry — unicorn blood was dribbling down a hooded figure front. a hooded figure got to a hooded figure feet and came swiftly toward Harry — Harry — couldn’t move for fear. Then a pain like Harry —’d never felt before pierced Harry — head; it was as though Harry — scar were on fire. Half blinded, Harry — staggered backward. Harry — heard hooves behind Harry —, galloping, and something jumped clean over Harry, charging at a hooded figure. The pain in Harry’s head was so bad Harry fell to Harry knees. It took a minute or two to pass. When Harry looked up, a hooded figure had gone. A centaur was standing over Harry, not Ronan or Bane; this one looked younger; Harry had white-blond hair and a palomino body. “Are you all right?” said the centaur, pulling Harry to its feet. “Yes — thank you — what was that?” A centaur didn’t answer. Harry had astonishingly blue eyes, like pale sapphires. Harry looked carefully at Harry, astonishingly blue eyes lingering on the scar that stood out, livid, on Harry’s forehead. “You are the Potter boy,” Harry said. “You had better get back to Hagrid. The forest is not safe at this time — especially for you. Can you ride? It will be quicker this way. “My name is Firenze,” My name added, as My name lowered My name on to My name front legs so that Harry could clamber onto Harry back. There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the clearing. Ronan and Bane came bursting through the trees, Ronan and Bane flanks heaving and sweaty. “Firenze!” Bane thundered. “What are you doing? You have a human on your back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?” “Do you realize who this is?” said Firenze. “This is the Potter boy. The quicker the Potter boy leaves The forest, the better.” “What have you been telling the Potter boy?” growled Bane. “Remember, Firenze, we are sworn not to set we against the heavens. Have we not read what is to come in the movements of the planets?” Ronan pawed the ground nervously. “I’m sure Firenze thought Ronan was acting for the best,” Ronan said in Ronan gloomy voice. Bane kicked Bane back legs in anger. “For the best! What is that to do with we? Centaurs are concerned with what has been foretold! It is not we business to run around like donkeys after stray humans in we forest!Firenze suddenly reared on to Firenze hind legs in anger, so that Harry had to grab Harry shoulders to stay on. “Do you not see that unicorn?” Firenze bellowed at Bane. “Do you not understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not let you in on that secret? I set myself against what is lurking in The forest, Bane, yes, with humans alongside myself if I must.” And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on as best Harry could, they plunged off into the trees, leaving Ronan and Bane behind Ronan and Bane. Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on. “Why’s Bane so angry?” Harry asked. “What was that thing you saved me from, anyway?Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep Harry head bowed in case of low-hanging branches, but did not answer Harry’s question. They made They way through the trees in silence for so long that Harrythought Firenze didn’t want to talk to Harry anymore. They were passing through a particularly dense patch of trees, however, when Firenze suddenly stopped. Harry PotterHarry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used for?” “No,” said Harry, startled by the odd question. “We’ve only used the horn and tail hair in Potions.” “That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn,” said Firenze. “Only one who has nothing to lose, and everything to gain, would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive, even if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price. You have slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a cursed life, from the moment The blood of a unicorn touches your lips.” Harry stared at the back of Firenze’s head, which was dappled silver in the moonlight. “But who’d be that desperate?” Harry wondered aloud. “If you’re going to be cursed forever, death’s better, isn’t ?” “It is,” Firenze agreed, “unless all you need is to stay alive long enough to drink something else — something that will bring you back to full strength and power — something that will mean you can never die. Harry Potter, do you know what is hidden in the school at this very moment?” “The Sorcerer’s Stone! Of course — the Elixir of Life! But I don’t understand who — ” “Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power, who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?” It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly around he’s here in the first place.” heart. Over the rustling of the trees, Harry seemed to hear once more what Hagrid had told Harry on the night they had met: “Some say Harry died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if Harry had enough human left in Harry to die.” “Do you mean,” Harry croaked, “that was VoZ — ” HarryHarry! Harry, are you all right?” Hermione was running toward them down the path, Hagrid puffing along behind Hermione. “I’m fine,” said Harry, hardly knowing what Harry was saying. “The unicorn’s dead, Hagrid, The unicorn’s dead’s in that clearing back there.” “This is where I leave you,” Firenze murmured as Hagrid hurried off to examine the unicorn. “You are safe now.” Harry slid off Harry back. “Good luck, Harry Potter,” said Firenze. “The planets have been read wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one of those times.” Harry turned and cantered back into the depths of the forest, leaving Harry shivering behind Harry. Harry had fallen asleep in the dark common room, waiting for them to return. Harry shouted something about Quidditch fouls when Harry roughly shook Harry awake. In a matter of seconds, though, Harry was wide- eyed as Harry began to tell Harry and Hermione what had happened in the forest. Harry couldn’t sit down. Harry paced up and down in front of the fire. Harry was still shaking. “Snape wants the Stone for Voldemort ... and The unicorn’s dead waiting in the forest ... and all this time we thought “Snape just wanted to get rich. ...” “Stop saying the name!” said Harry in a terrified whisper, as if Harry thought Voldemort could hear them. Harry wasn’t listening. Firenze saved me, but Firenze shouldn’t have done so. ... Bane was furious ... Bane was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to happen. ... the planets must show that Voldemortcoming back. ... Banethinks Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me. ... I suppose thathe’s here in the first place.” written in the stars as well.” “Will you stop saying the name\” Harry hissed. “So all I’ve got to wait for now is “Snape to steal The Sorcerer’s Stone,” Harry went on feverishly, “then Voldemort will be able to come and finish me off. ... Well, I suppose Bane be happy.” Hermione looked very frightened, but Hermione had a word of comfort. “Harry, everyone says Dumbledore’s the only one You-Know-Who was ever afraid of. With Dumbledore around, You-Know-Who won’t touch you. Anyway, who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me, and Professor McGonagall says that’s a very imprecise branch of magic.” The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. they went to bed exhausted, they throats sore. But the night’s surprises weren’t over. When Harry pulled back Harry sheets, Harry found Harry Invisibility Cloak folded neatly underneath his sheets. There was a note pinned to his Invisibility Cloak: Just in case. THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR In years to come, Harry would never quite remember how Harry had managed to get through Harry exams when Harry half expected Voldemort to come bursting through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door. It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom where they did they written papers. they had been given special, new quills for the exams, which had been bewitched with an Anti-Cheating spell. they had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick called they one by one into Professor Flitwick class to see if they could make a pineapple tap-dance across a desk. Professor McGonagall watched they turn a mouse into a snuffbox — points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if the snuffbox had whiskers. “Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their necks while their tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion. Harry did the best Harry could, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in Harry forehead, which had been bothering Harry ever since Harry trip into the forest. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves because Harry couldn’t sleep, but the truth was that Harry kept being woken by Harry old nightmare, except that it was now worse than ever because there was a hooded figure dripping blood in it. Maybe it was because they hadn’t seen what Harryhad seen in the forest, or because they didn’t have scars burning on they foreheads, but Harry and Hermione didn’t seem as worried about The Sorcerer’s Stone as HarryHarry. The idea of Voldemort certainly scared The idea of Voldemort, but The idea of Voldemort didn’t keep visiting The idea of Voldemort in dreams, and The idea of Voldemort were so busy with The idea of Voldemort studying The idea of Voldemort didn’t have much time to fret about what “Snape or anyone else might be up to. The idea of Voldemort very last exam was History of Magic. One hour of answering questions about batty old wizards who’d invented self-stirring cauldrons and they’d be free, free for a whole wonderful week until they exam results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns told they to put down they quills and roll up they parchment, Harry couldn’t help cheering with the rest. “That was far easier than I thought it would be,” said Hermione as they joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. “I needn’t have learned about the Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of Elfric the Eager.” Hermione always liked to go through their exam papers afterward, but Harry said this made Harry feel ill, so they wandered down to the lake and flopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. “No more studying,” Harry sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. “You could look more cheerful, Harry, we’ve got a week before we find out how badly we’ve done, there’s no need to worry yet.” Harry was rubbing Harry forehead. “I wish I knew what this means\” Harry burst out angrily. “My scar keeps hurting — it’s happened before, but never as often as this.” “Go to Madam Pomfrey,” Hermione suggested. “I’m not ill,” said Harry. “I think it’s a warning ... it means danger’s coming. ...” Harry couldn’t get worked up, it was too hot. HarryHarry, relax, Hermione ’s right, The unicorn’s dead safe as long as Dumbledore’s around. Anyway, we’ve never had any proof “Snape found out how to get past Fluffy. “Snape nearly had “Snape leg ripped off once, “Snape’s not going to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch for England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down.” Harry nodded, but Harry couldn’t shake off a lurking feeling that there was something Harry’d forgotten to do, something important. When Harry tried to explain this, Hermione said, “That’s just the exams. I woke up last night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before I remembered we’d done that one.” Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn’t have anything to do with work, though. Harry watched an owl flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky, a note clamped in an owl flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky mouth. Hagrid was the only one who ever sent Harry letters. Hagrid would never betray Dumbledore. Hagrid would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy . . . never . . . but — Harry suddenly jumped to Harry feet. “Where ’re you going?” said Harry sleepily. “I’ve just thought of something,” said Harry. Harry had turned white. “We’ve got to go and see Hagrid, now.” “Why?” panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up. “Don’t you think it’s a bit odd,” said Harry, scrambling up the grassy slope, “that what Hagridwants more than anything else is a dragon, and a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in a dragon pocket? How many people wander around with dragon eggs if it’s against wizard law? Lucky they found Hagrid, don’t you think? Why didn’t I see it before?” “What are you talking about?” said Harry, but Harry, sprinting across the grounds toward the forest, didn’t answer. Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside Hagrid house; Hagrid trousers and sleeves were rolled up, and Hagrid was shelling peas into a large bowl. “Hullo,” Hagrid said, smiling. “Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?” “Yes, please,” said Harry, but Harry cut Harry off. “No, we’re in a hurry. Hagrid, I’ve got to ask you something. You know that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you were playing cards with look like?” “Dunno said Hagrid casually, “Hagrid wouldn’ take Hagrid cloak off.” Hagrid saw the three of them look stunned and raised Hagrid eyebrows. “It’s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s Head — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn’ Mighta bin? I never saw Mighta bin a dragon dealer face, Mighta bin a dragon dealer kept Mighta bin a dragon dealer hood up.” Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas. “What did you talk to Harry about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?” Mighta bin a dragon dealer come up,” said Hagrid, frowning as Hagrid tried to remember. “Yeah ... Hagrid asked what I did, an’ I told Hagrid I was gamekeeper here. ... Hagrid asked a bit about the sorta creatures I look after ... so I told Hagrid ... an’ I said what I’d always really wanted was a dragon ... an’ then ... I can’ remember too well, ’cause ’cause kept buyin’ me drinks. ... LetThe unicorn’s dead see ... yeah, then ’cause said ’cause had the dragon egg an’ we could play cards fer it if I wanted . . . but ’cause had ter be sure I could handle it, ’cause didn’ want it ter go ter any old home. ... So I told it ter, after Fluffy, a dragon would be easy. ...” “And did it ter — did it ter seem interested in Fluffy?” Harry asked, trying to keep it ter voice calm. “Well — yeah — how many three-headed dogs d’yeh meet, even around Hogwarts? So I told it ter, Fluffy’s a piece o’ cake if yeh know how to calm yeh down, jus’ play yeh a bit o’ music an’ yeh’ll go straight off ter sleep — ” Hagrid suddenly looked horrified. “I shouldn’ta told yeh that!” yeh blurted out. “Forget I said it! Hey — where’re yeh goin’?” Harry, Harry, and Hermione didn’t speak to each other at all until Harry, Ron, and Hermione came to a halt in the entrance hall, which seemed very cold and gloomy after the grounds. “We’ve got to go to Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Hagridtold that stranger how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Snape or Voldemort under that cloak — it must’ve been easy, once he’d got Hagrid drunk. I just hope Dumbledore believes us. Firenze might back us up if Bane doesn’t stop Bane. Where’s Dumbledore’s office?” They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing They in the right direction. They had never been told where Dumbledore lived, nor did They know anyone who had been sent to see Dumbledore. “Well just have to — ” Harry began, but a voice suddenly rang across the hall. “What are you three doing inside?” It was Professor McGonagall, carrying a large pile of books. “us want to see Dumbledore,” said Hermione, rather bravely, Harry and Harry thought. “See Dumbledore?” Professor McGonagall repeated, as though this was a very fishy thing to want to do. “Why?” Harry swallowed — now what? “It’s sort of secret,” he said, but he wished at once he hadn’t, because Professor McGonagall’s nostrils flared. “Dumbledore left ten minutes ago,” she said coldly. “Dumbledore received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for London at once.” “DumbledoreThe unicorn’s dead gone?” said Harry frantically. “Now?” “Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter, Dumbledore has many demands on Dumbledore time — ” “But this is important.” “Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic, Potter?” “Look,” said Harry, throwing caution to the winds, “Professor — it’s about the Sorcerer’s Stone — ” Whatever Professor McGonagall had expected, Professor McGonagall wasn’t that. The books Professor McGonagall was carrying tumbled out of Professor McGonagall arms, but Professor McGonagall didn’t pick The books she was carrying up. “How do you know — ?” Professor McGonagall spluttered. “Professor, I think — I know — that Sn — that someone’s going to try and steal the Stone. I’ve got to talk to Dumbledore.” Professor McGonagall eyed Dumbledore with a mixture of shock and suspicion. “Dumbledore will be back tomorrow,” Professor McGonagall said finally. “I don’t know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can possibly steal no one, no one’s too well protected.” “But Professor — ” “Potter, I know what I’m talking about,” Professor McGonagall said shortly. Professor McGonagall bent down and gathered up the fallen books. “I suggest you all go back outside and enjoy the sunshine.” But they didn’t. “It’s tonight,” said Harry, once Harry was sure Professorwas out of earshot. “Snape’s going through the trapdoor tonight. Snape’s found out everything Snape’s needs, and now Snape’s got Dumbledoreout of the way. Dumbledore sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when Dumbledore turns up.” “But what can we — ” Hermione gasped. Harry and Harry wheeled round. Snape was standing there. “Good afternoon,” Snape said smoothly. Harry and Ron stared at Snape. “You shouldn’t be inside on a day like this,” Snape said, with an odd, twisted smile. “Harry and Ron were — ” Harry began, without any idea what Harry was going to say. “You want to be more careful,” said Snape. “Hanging around like this, people will think you’re up to something. And Gryffindor really can’t afford to lose any more points, can Gryffindor?” Harry flushed. They turned to go outside, but Snapecalled They back. “Be warned, — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the village any more nighttime wanderings and I will personally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you.” you strode off in the direction of the staffroom. Out on the stone steps, Harry turned to the others. “Right, here’s what we’ve got to do,” you whispered urgently. “One of we has got to keep an eye on Snape— wait outside the staffroom and follow Snape — if Snape — leaves the staffroom. Hermione, you’d better do that.” “Why me?” “It’s obvious,” said Harry. “You can pretend to be waiting for Professor Flitwick, you know.” Harry put on a high voice, “ ‘Oh Professor Flitwick, I’m so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong. . . . ’ ” “Oh, shut up,” said Hermione, but Hermione agreed to go and watch out for Snape. “And we’d better stay outside the third-floor corridor,” Harry told Harry. “Come on.” But that part of the plan didn’t work. No sooner had they reached the door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than Professor McGonagall turned up again and this time, Professor McGonagall lost Professor McGonagall temper. “I suppose you think you’re harder to get past than a pack of enchantments!” Professor McGonagall stormed. “Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you’ve come anywhere near here again, I’ll take another fifty points from Gryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own House!” Harry and Ron went back to the common room. Harryhad just said, “At least Hermione’s on Snape’s tail,” when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Hermione came in. “I’m sorry, Harry!” Professor McGonagall wailed. “Snape came out and asked me what I was doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and Snape went to get Snape, and I’ve only just got away, I don’t know where Snape went.” “Well, that’s it then, isn’t it?” Harry said. The other two stared at Snape. Snape was pale and Snape eyes were glittering. “I’m going out of here tonight and I’m going to try and get to the Stone first.” “You’re mad!” said Harry. “You can’t!” said Hermione. “After what Professor McGonagall and Snape have said? You’ll be expelled!” “SO WHAT?” Harry shouted. “Don’t you understand? If Snape gets hold of the Stone, Voldemort’s coming back! Haven’t you heard what it was like when Snape was trying to take over? There won’t be any Hogwarts to get expelled from! Snape’ll flatten it, or turn it into a school for the Dark Arts! Losing points doesn’t matter anymore, can’t you see? D’you think D’you’ll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the House Cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well, I’ll have to go back to the Dursleys and wait for Voldemort to find me there, it’s only dying a bit later than I would have, because I’m never going over to the Dark Side! I’m going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing you two say is going to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?” Voldemort glared at my parents. “You’re right, Harry,” said Hermione in a small voice. “I’ll use the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just lucky I got It back.” “But will it cover all three of us?” said Harry. “All — all three of us?” “Oh, come off it, you don’t think us’d let you go alone?” “Of course not,” said Hermione briskly. “How do you think you’d get to the Stone the Stone without us? I’d better go and look through my books, there might be something useful. ...” “But if us get caught, you two will be expelled, too.” “Not if I can help it,” said Hermione grimly. “Professor Flitwicktold me in secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on Professor Flitwick exam. I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam’re not throwing me out after that.” After dinner the three of I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam sat nervously apart in the common room. Nobody bothered I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam; none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to Harry any more, after all. This was the first night Harry hadn’t been upset by This. Hermione was skimming through all her notes, hoping to come across one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. Harryand Harry didn’t talk much. Harry and Ron Harry and Ron were thinking about what Harry and Ron were about to do. Slowly, the common room emptied as people drifted off to bed. “Better get the cloak,” Harry muttered, as Lee Jordan finally left, stretching and yawning. Harry ran upstairs to their dark dormitory. Harry pulled out the cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid had given Harry for Christmas. Harry pocketed the flute Hagrid to use on Fluffy — Harry didn’t feel much like singing. Harry ran back down to the common room. “We’d better put cloak on here, and make sure cloak covers all three of We — if Filch spots one of We feet wandering along on its own — ” “What are you doing?” said a voice from the corner of the common room. Neville appeared from behind an armchair, clutching Trevor the toad, who looked as though Neville’d been making another bid for freedom. “Nothing, Neville, nothing,” said Harry, hurriedly putting cloak behind Harry back. Neville stared at their guilty faces. “You’re going out again,” Neville said. “No, no, no,” said Hermione. “No, We’re not. Why don’t you go to bed, Neville?” Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door. their couldn’t afford to waste any more time, Snapemight even now be playing Fluffy to sleep. “You can’t go out,” said Neville, “you’ll be caught again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble.” “You don’t understand,” said Harry, “this is important.” But Neville was clearly steeling Neville to do something desperate. “I won’t let you do it,” Neville said, hurrying to stand in front of the portrait hole. “I’ll — I’ll fight you!” Neville,” Harry exploded, “get away from the portrait hole and don’t be an idiot — ” “Don’t you call me an idiot!” said Neville. “I don’t think you should be breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to people!” “Yes, but not to us,” said Harry in exasperation. “Neville, you don’t know what you’re doing.” Neville took a step forward and Neville dropped Trevor the toad, who leapt out of sight. “Go on then, try and hit me!” said Neville, raising Neville fists. “I’m ready!” Harry turned to Hermione. “Do something,” Neville said desperately. Hermione stepped forward. Neville,” Hermione said, “I’m really, really sorry about this.” Hermione raised Hermione wand. “Petrificus Totalusl” Hermione cried, pointing it at Neville. Neville’s arms snapped to Neville’s sides. Neville’s legs sprang together. Neville’s whole body rigid, Neville’s swayed where Neville’s stood and then fell flat on Neville’s face, stiff as a board. Hermione ran to turn Neville’s over. Neville’s jaws were jammed together so Neville’s couldn’t speak. Only Neville’s eyes were moving, looking at Only his eyes in horror. “What’ve you done to ?” Harry whispered. “It’s the full Body-Bind,” said Hermione miserably. “Oh, Neville, I’m so sorry.” “We had to, Neville, no time to explain,” said Harry. “You’ll understand later, Neville,” said Harry as they stepped over Harry and pulled on the Invisibility Cloak. But leaving Neville lying motionless on the floor didn’t feel like a very good omen. In their nervous state, every statue’s shadow looked like Filch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Peeves swooping down on their. At the foot of the first set of stairs, their spotted Mrs. Norris skulking near the top. “Oh, let’s kick Mrs. Norris, just this once,” Harry whispered in Harry’s ear, but Harry shook Harry head. As they climbed carefully around Mrs. Norris, Mrs. Norris turned Mrs. Norris lamplike eyes on they, but didn’t do anything. they didn’t meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the floor. Peeves was bobbing halfway up, loosening the carpet so that people would trip. “Who’s there?” Harry’s ear said suddenly as they climbed toward Harry’s ear. Harry’s ear narrowed Harry’s ear wicked black eyes. “Know you’re there, even if I can’t see you. Are you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?” Harry’s ear rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them. “Should call Filch, I should, if something’s a-creeping around unseen.” Harry had a sudden idea. “Peeves,” Harry said, in a hoarse whisper, “the Bloody Baron has Baron own reasons for being invisible.” Peeves almost fell out of the air in shock. Baron caught Baron in time and hovered about a foot off the stairs. “So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, sir,” Baron said greasily. “My mistake, My mistake — I didn’t see you — of course I didn’t, you’re invisible — forgive old Peevsie Peevsie little joke, sir.” “I have business here, Peeves,” croaked Harry. “Stay away from this place tonight.” “I will, sir, I most certainly will,” said Peeves, rising up in the air again. “Hope your business goes well, Baron, I’ll not bother you.” And Baron scooted off. “Brilliant, Harry!” whispered Harry. A few seconds later, “Brilliant, Harry!” were there, outside the third-floor corridor — and the door was already ajar. “Well, there you are,” Harry said quietly, “Snape’s already got past Fluffy.” Seeing the door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of “Brilliant, Harry!” what was facing “Brilliant, Harry!”. Underneath cloak, Harry turned to the other two. “If you want to go back, I won’t blame you,” Harry said. “You can take cloak, I won’t need cloak now.” “Don’t be stupid,” said Harry. “We’re coming,” said Hermione. Harry pushed the door open. As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their ears. All three of the dog’s noses sniffed madly in their direction, even though it couldn’t see their. “What’s that at it feet?” Hermione whispered. “Looks like a harp,” said Harry. “Snape must have left it there.” “It must wake up the moment you stop playing,” said Harry. “Well, here goes ...” Snape put Hagrid’s flute to Snape lips and blew. It wasn’t really a tune, but from the first note the beast’s eyes began to droop. Harry hardly drew breath. Slowly, the dog’s growls ceased — the dog’s growls tottered on the dog’s growls paws and fell to the dog’s growls knees, then the dog’s growls slumped to the ground, fast asleep. “Keep playing,” Harry warned Harry as they slipped out of cloak and crept toward the trapdoor. they could feel the dog’s hot, smelly breath as they approached the giant heads. “I think we’ll be able to pull the door open,” said Harry, peering over the dog’s back. “Want to go first, Hermione?” “No, I don’t!” “All right.” Harry gritted Harry teeth and stepped carefully over the dog’s legs. Harry bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, which swung up and open. “What can you see?” Hermione said anxiously. “Nothing — just black — there’s no way of climbing down, we’ll just have to drop.” Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Harry to get Harry attention and pointed at Harry. “You want to go first? Are you sure?” said Harry. “I don’t know how deep this thing goes. Give the flute to Hermione so Hermione can keep Hermione asleep.” Harry handed the flute over. In the few seconds’ silence, the dog growled and twitched, but the moment Hermione began to play, the dog fell back into the dog deep sleep. Harry climbed over the dog and looked down through the trapdoor. There was no sign of the bottom. Harry lowered Harry through the hole until Harry was hanging on by Harry fingertips. Then Harry looked up at Harry Harry and said, “If anything happens to Harry, don’t follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore, right?” “Right,” said Harry. “See you in a minute, I hope. ...” And Harry let go. Cold, damp air rushed past Harry as Harry fell down, down, down and — FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump Harry landed on something soft. Harry sat up and felt around, Harry eyes not used to the gloom. his eyes felt as though Harry was sitting on some sort of plant. “his eyes’s okay!” Harry called up to the light the size of a postage stamp, which was the open trapdoor, “his eyes’s a soft landing, you can jump!” Harry followed right away. Harry landed, sprawled next to HarryHarry. “What’s this stuff?” were Harry first words. “Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it’s here to break the fall. Come on, Hermione!” The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog, but Hermione had already jumped. Hermione landed on Harry’s other side. “We must be miles under the school,” Hermione said. “Lucky this plant thing’s here, really,” said Harry. “Lucky\” shrieked Hermione. “Look at you both!” Hermione leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. Hermione had to struggle because the moment Hermione had landed, the plant had started to twist snakelike tendrils around Hermione ankles. As for Harry and Harry, Harry and Ron legs had already been bound tightly in long creepers without Harry and Ron noticing. Hermione had managed to free Hermione before the plant got a firm grip on Hermione. Now Hermione watched in horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant off the two boys, but the more the two boys strained against the, the tighter and faster the plant wound around the two boys. “Stop moving!” Hermione ordered the two boys. “I know what this is — this’s Devil’s Snare!” “Oh, I’m so glad we know what it’s called, that’s great help,” snarled Harry, leaning back, trying to stop the plant from curling around Harry neck. “Shut up, I’m trying to remember how to kill it!” said Hermione. “Well, hurry up, I can’t breathe!” Harry gasped, wrestling with it as it curled around Harry chest. “Devil’s Snare, Devil’s Snare ... what did Professor Sprout say? — it likes the dark and the damp — ” “So light a fire!” Harry choked. “Yes — of course — but there’s no wood!” Hermionecried, wringing Hermione hands. “HAVE YOU GONE MAD?” Harry bellowed. “ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?” “Oh, right!” said Hermione, and Hermione whipped out Hermione wand, waved her wand, muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames Hermione had used on Snape at the plant. In a matter of seconds, the two boys felt it loosening it grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth. Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled it from Wriggling and flailing bodies, and Wriggling and flailing were able to pull free. “Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione,” said Harry as Harry joined Hermione by the wall, wiping sweat off Harry face. “Yeah,” said Harry, “and Harry Harry doesn’t lose Harry head in a crisis — ‘there’s no wood,’ honestly.” “This way,” said Harry, pointing down a stone passageway, which was the only way forward. All they could hear apart from they footsteps was the gentle drip of water trickling down the walls. The passageway sloped downward, and Harry was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the heart, Harry remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards’ bank. If the dragons met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon — Norbert had been bad enough ... “Can you hear something?” Harry whispered. Harry listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to be coming from up ahead. “Do you think it’s a ghost?” “I don’t know ... sounds like wings to Harry.” “There’s light ahead — I can see something moving.” the dragons reached the end of The passageway and saw before the dragons a brilliantly lit chamber, a brilliantly lit chamber ceiling arching high above the dragons. a brilliantly lit chamber was full of small, jewel- bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On the opposite side of a brilliantly lit chamber was a heavy wooden door. “Do you think the dragons’ll attack us if us cross the room?” said Harry. “Probably,” said Harry. “the dragons don’t look very vicious, but I suppose if the dragons swooped down at once . . . well, there’s no other choice ... I’ll run.” He took a deep breath, covered He face with He arms, and sprinted across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and claws tearing at He any second, but nothing happened. He reached a heavy wooden door. He pulled the handle, but the handle was locked. The other two followed He. They tugged and heaved at a heavy wooden door, but it wouldn’t budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomora Charm. “Now what?” said Harry. “These birds ... These birds ... can’t be here just for decoration,” said Hermione. These birds ... watched These birds ... soaring overhead, glittering — glittering? “These birds ...’re not birds!” Harry said suddenly. “These birds ...’re keys\ Winged keys — look carefully. So that must mean ...” He looked around a brilliantly lit chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes — look! Broomsticks! We’ve got to catch the key to the door!” “But there are hundreds of them!” Harry examined the lock on the door. “We’re looking for a big, old-fashioned one — probably silver, like the handle.” They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air, soaring into the midst of the cloud of keys. They grabbed and snatched, but the bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to catch one. Not for nothing, though, was Harry the youngest Seeker in a century. Harry the youngest Seeker had a knack for spotting things other people didn’t. After a minute’s weaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, Harry the youngest Seeker noticed a large silver key that had a bent wing, as if he had already been caught and stuffed roughly into the keyhole. “That one!” Harry the youngest Seeker called to the others. “That big one — there — no, there — with bright blue wings — the feathers are all crumpled on one side.” Harry went speeding in the direction that Harry was pointing, crashed into the ceiling, and nearly fell off Harry broom. “We’ve got to close in on his broom!” Harry called, not taking Harry eyes off a large silver key that had a bent wing with the damaged wing. “Harry, you come at his broom from above Hermione, stay below and stop his broom from going down — and I’ll try and catch his broom. Right, NOW!” Harry dived, Hermione rocketed upward, the key dodged them both, and Harry streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Harry leaned forward and with a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone with one hand. Harry and Hermione ’s cheers echoed around a brilliantly lit chamber. Ron and Hermione ’s cheers landed quickly, and Harry ran to the door, the key struggling in one hand. Harry rammed the door into the lock and turned — the door worked. The moment the lock had clicked open, the key took flight again, looking very battered now that the door had been caught twice. “Ready?” Harry asked the other two, Harry hand on the door handle. Ron and Hermione ’s cheers nodded. Harry pulled the door open. a brilliantly lit chamber was so dark Ron and Hermione ’s cheers couldn’t see anything at all. But as Ron and Hermione ’s cheers stepped into a brilliantly lit chamber, light suddenly flooded the room to reveal an astonishing sight. Ron and Hermione ’s cheers were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard, behind the black chessmen, which were all taller than Ron and Hermione ’s cheers were and carved from what looked like black stone. Facing Ron and Hermione ’s cheers, way across a brilliantly lit chamber, were the white pieces. Harry, Harry and Hermione shivered slightly — the towering white chessmen had no faces. “Now what do we do?” Harry whispered. “It’s obvious, isn’t It?” said Harry. “We’ve got to play We way across the room.” Behind the white pieces the white pieces could see another door. “How?” said Hermione nervously. “I think,” said Harry, “We’re going to have to be chessmen.” Harry walked up to a black knight and put Harry hand out to touch the knights horse. At once, black stone sprang to life. the knights horse pawed the ground and a black knightturned a black knight helmeted head to look down at Harry. “Do We — er — have to join you to get across?” a black knight nodded. Harry turned to the other two. “This needs thinking about. ...” Harry said. “I suppose we’ve got to take the place of three of the black pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione stayed quiet, watching Harrythink. Finally Harry said, “Now, don’t be offended or anything, but neither of Harry are that good at chess — “we’re not offended,” said Harry quickly. “Just tell we what to do.” “Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and Hermione, you go there instead of that castle.” “What about you?” “I’m going to be a knight,” said Harry. The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at these words a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned a knight, a bishop, and a castle backs on the white pieces and walked off the board, leaving three empty squares that Harry, Harry, and Hermione took. “White always plays first in chess,” said Harry, peering across the board. “Yes ... look ...” A white pawn had moved forward two squares. Harry started to direct the white pieces. the white pieces moved silently wherever Harry sent the white pieces. Harry’s knees were trembling. What if the white pieces lost? — of course move diagonally four squares to the right.” the white pieces first real shock came when the white pieces other knight was taken. The white queen smashed their other knight to the floor and dragged their other knight off the board, where their other knight lay quite still, facedown. “Had to let that happen,” said Harry, looking shaken. “Leaves you free to take that bishop, Hermione, go on.” Every time one of their men was lost, the white piecesshowed no mercy. Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumped along the wall. Twice, Harry only just noticed in time that Harry, Ron and Hermione were in danger. Harry darted around the board, taking almost as many white pieces as Harry, Ron and Hermione had lost black ones. “We’re nearly there,” Harry muttered suddenly. “Let me think — let me think ...” The white queen turned The white queen blank face toward Harry. “Yes ...” said Harry softly, “it’s the only way ... I’ve got to be taken.” “NO!” Harry, Ron and Hermione shouted. “That’s chess!” snapped Harry. “You’ve got to make some sacrifices! I make my move and she’ll take me — that leaves you free to checkmate the king, Harry!” “But — of course“Do you want to stop Snape or not?” “Ron — ” “Look, if you don’t hurry up, hell already have the Stone!” There was no alternative. “Ready?” Harry called, Harry face pale but determined. “Here I go — now, don’t hang around once you’ve won.” Harry stepped forward, and The white queen pounced. The white queen struck Harry hard across the head with The white queen stone arm, and Harry crashed to the floor — Hermionescreamed but stayed on The white queen square — The white queen dragged Harry to one side. Harry looked as if Harry’d been knocked out. Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left. The white king took off The white king crown and threw his crown at Harry’s feet. They had won. The chessmen parted and bowed, leaving the door ahead clear. With one last desperate look back at Harry, Harry and Hermionecharged through the door and up the next passageway. “What if Harry’s — ?” “Harry’ll be all right,” said Harry, trying to convince Harry. “What do you reckonhe’s next?” “We’ve had Sprout’s, that was the Devil’s Snare; Flitwick must’ve put charms on the keys; McGonagall transfigured The chessmen to make them alive; that leaves Quirrell’s spell, and Snape’s ...” them had reached another door. “All right?” Harry whispered. “Go on.” Harry pushed it open. A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of both of pull both of robes up over both of noses. Eyes watering, both of saw, flat on the floor in front of both of , a troll even larger than the one both of had tackled, out cold with a bloody lump on the one they had tackled head. “I“ glad both of didn’t have to fight the one they had tackled,” Harrywhispered as they stepped carefully over one of its massive legs. “Come on, I can’t breathe.” Harry pulled open another door, both of them hardly daring to look at what came next — but there was nothing very frightening in here, just a table with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line. “Snape’s,” said Harry. “What do both of have to do?” both of them hardly stepped over the threshold, and immediately a fire sprang up behind both of them hardly in the doorway. It wasn’t ordinary fire either; It was purple. At the same instant, black flames shot up in the doorway. black flames were trapped. “Look!” Hermione seized a roll of paper lying next to the bottles. Harry looked over Harry shoulder to read her shoulder: Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind, Two of us will help you, whichever you would find, One among us seven will let you move ahead, Another will transport the drinker back instead, Two among us number hold only nettle wine, Three of us are killers, waiting hidden in line. Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore, To help you in your choice, us give you these clues four: First, however slyly the poison tries to hide You will always find some on nettle wine’s left side; Second, different are those who stand at either end, But if you would move onward, neither is your friend; Third, as you see clearly, all are different size, Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in dwarf nor giant insides; Fourth, the second left and the second on the right Are twins once you taste twins, though different at first sight Hermione let out a great sigh and Harry, amazed, saw that Hermione was smiling, the very last thing he felt like doing. “Brilliant,” said Hermione. “This isn’t magic — it’s logic — a puzzle. A lot of the greatest wizards haven’t got an ounce of logic, A lot of the greatest wizards haven’t ’d be stuck in here forever.” “But so will we, won’t we?” “Of course not,” said Hermione. “Everything we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are wine; one will get we safely through the black fire, and one will get we back through the purple.” “But how do we know which to drink?” “Give me a minute.” Hermione read this paper several times. Then Hermione walked up and down the line of bottles, muttering to Hermione and pointing at them. At last, Hermione clapped Hermione hands. “Got her hands,” Hermione said. “The smallest bottle will get The smallest bottlethrough the black fire — toward the Stone.” Harry looked at The smallest bottle. “There’s only enough there for one of us,” Harry said. “That’s hardly one swallow.” They looked at each other. “Which one will get you back through the purple flames?” Hermione pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end of the line. “You drink that,” said Harry. “No, listen, get back and get Harry. Grab brooms from the flying-key room, they’ll get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy — go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore, we need Dumbledore. I might be able to hold Snape off for a while, but I’m no match for Dumbledore, really.” “But Harry — what if You-Know- Who’s with Harry?” “Well — I was lucky once, wasn’t I?” said Harry, pointing at Harry scar. “I might get lucky again.” Hermione’s lip trembled, and Hermione suddenly dashed at Harry Harry and threw Hermione arms around Harry. “Hermionel” “Harry — you’re a great wizard, you know.” “I’m not as good as you,” said Harry, very embarrassed, as Hermione let go of Harry. “Me!” said Hermione. “Books! And cleverness! There are more important things — friendship and bravery and — oh Harry — be carefull” “You drink first,” said Harry. “You are sure which is which, aren’t you?” “Positive,” said Hermione. Hermione took a long drink from the round bottle at the end, and shuddered. “It’s not poison?” said Harry anxiously. “No — but It’s like ice.” “Quick, go, before It wears off.” “Good luck — take care — ” “GO!” Hermione turned and walked straight through the purple fire. Harry took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. Harry turned to face the black flames. “Here I come,” Harry said, and Harry drained the smallest bottlein one gulp. It was indeed as though ice was flooding Harry body. Harry put the smallest bottle down and walked forward; Harry braced Harry, saw the black flames licking his body, but couldn’t feel the black flames — for a moment Harry could see nothing but dark fire — then Harry was on the other side, in the last chamber. There was already someone there — but it wasn’t Snape. It wasn’t even Voldemort. THE MAN WITH TWO FACES It was Quirrell. “You\” gasped Harry. Quirrell smiled. Quirrell face wasn’t twitching at all. “Me,” Quirrell said calmly. “I wondered whether I’d be meeting you here, Potter.” “But I thought — Snape — ” “Severus?” Quirrell laughed, and Quirrell wasn’t Quirrell usual quivering treble, either, but cold and sharp. “Yes, Severus does seem the type, doesn’t Severus? So useful to have Severus swooping around like an overgrown bat. Next to Severus, who would suspect p-p-poor, st- stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?Harry Harry couldn’t take it in. This couldn’t be true, it couldn’t. “But Snape tried to kill me!” “No, no, no. / tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Granger accidentally knocked me over as Your friend Miss Granger rushed to set fire to Snape at that Quidditch match. Your friend Miss Granger broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds and I’d have got you off that broom. I’d have managed that broom before then if Snape hadn’t been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you.” Snape Snape was trying to save me?” “Of course,” said Quirrell coolly. “Why do you think Snape wanted to referee your next match? Snape was trying to make sure I didn’t do that broom again. Funny, really ... Snape needn’t have bothered. I couldn’t do anything with Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought Snape was trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, Snape did make Snape unpopular . . . and what a waste of time, when after all that, I’m going to kill you tonight.” Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped Ropes tightly around Harry. “You’re too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the school on Halloween like that, for all I knew you’d seen me coming to look at what was guarding the Stone.” “ You let the troll in?” “Certainly. I have a special gift with trolls — you must have seen what I did to the one in the chamber back there? Unfortunately, while everyone else was running around looking for everyone else was , Snape, who already suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off — and not only did the troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dog didn’t even manage to bite Snape ’s leg off properly. “Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interesting mirror.” It was only then that Harry realized what was standing behind Quirrell. It was the Mirror of Erised. “the Mirror of Erised is the key to finding the Stone,” Quirrellmurmured, tapping Quirrell way around the frame. “Trust Dumbledore to come up with something like this . . . but Quirrell’s in London ... I’ll be far away by the time Quirrell gets back. ...” Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrelltalking and stop Quirrell from concentrating on the Mirror of Erised. “I saw you and Snape in the forest — ” Snape blurted out. “Yes,” said Quirrell idly, walking around the Mirror of Erised to look at the back. “Snape was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far I’d got. Snape suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me — as though Snape could, when I had Lord Voldemort on my side. ...” Quirrell came back out from behind the Mirror of Erised and stared hungrily into the Mirror of Erised. “I see the Stone ... I’m presenting the Stone to “Master ... but where is the Stone?” Harry struggled against the ropes binding Harry, but they didn’t give. Harry had to keep Quirrell from giving Harry whole attention to the Mirror of Erised. “But Snape always seemed to hate me so much.” “Oh, Snape does,” said Quirrell casually, “heavens, yes. Snape was at Hogwarts with your father, didn’t you know? loathed each other. But Snape never wanted you dead.” “But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing — I thought Snape was threatening you. For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Quirrell’s face. “Sometimes,” Snape said, “I find it hard to follow “Master’s instructions — Snape is a great wizard and I am weak — ” “You mean Snape was there in the classroom with you?” Harry gasped. “Snape is with me wherever I go,” said Quirrell quietly. “I met Snape when I traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then, full of ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrong I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too weak to seek it. ... Since then, I have served Lord Voldemort faithfully, although I have let Lord Voldemort down many times. Lord Voldemort has had to be very hard on me.” Quirrell shivered suddenly. “Lord Voldemort does not forgive mistakes easily. When I failed to steal the Stone from Gringotts, Lord Voldemort was most displeased. Lord Voldemort punished me . . . decided Lord Voldemort would have to keep a closer watch on me. ...” Quirrell’s voice trailed away. Harry was remembering Harry trip to Diagon Alley — how could Harry have been so stupid? Harry’d seen Quirrell there that very day, shaken hands with Harry in the Leaky Cauldron. Quirrell cursed under Quirrell breath. “I don’t understand ... is the Stone? Should I break the mirror?” Harry’s mind was racing. What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, Harry thought, is to find the Stone before Quirrell does. So if I look in the mirror, I should see my self finding the mirror — which means I’ll see where the mirror’s hidden! But how can I look without Quirrell realizing what I’m up to? Harry tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around Harry ankles were too tight: Harry tripped and fell over. Quirrellignored Harry. Harry was still talking to Harry. “What does the mirror do? How does the mirror work? Help me, “Master!” And to Harry’s horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemed to come from Quirrell. “Use the boy ... Use the boy ...” Quirrell rounded on Harry. “Yes — Potter — come here.” — Potter — clapped — Potter — hands once, and the ropes around his ankles fell off. Harry got slowly to Harry feet. “Come here,” Quirrell repeated. “Look in the mirror and tell me what you see.” Harry walked toward Harry. I must lie, Harry thought desperately. I must look and lie about what I see, that’s all. Quirrell moved close behind Harry. Harry breathed in the funny smell that seemed to come from Quirrell’s turban. turban closed turban eyes, stepped in front of the mirror, and opened them again. turban saw turban reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. But a moment later, the reflection smiled at turban. the reflection put the reflection hand into the reflection pocket and pulled out a blood- red stone. the reflection winked and put the Stone back in the Stone pocket — and as the reflection did so, Harry felt something heavy drop into its pocket. Somehow — incredibly — Harry’d gotten the Stone. “Well?” said Quirrell impatiently. “What do you see?” Harry screwed up Harry courage. “I see Harry shaking hands with Dumbledore,” Dumbledore invented. “I — I’ve won the House Cup for Gryffindor.” Quirrell cursed again. “Get out of the way,” Dumbledore said. As Harry moved aside, Dumbledore felt the Stone against Dumbledore leg. Dare Dumbledore make a break for it? But Dumbledore hadn’t walked five paces before a high voice spoke, though Quirrell wasn’t moving Dumbledore lips. “Dumbledore lies ... Dumbledore lies ...” Potter, come back here!” Quirrell shouted. “Tell me the truth! What did you just see?” a high voice spoke again. “Let me speak to Dumbledore ... face-to-face. ...” “Master, you are not strong enough!” “I have strength enough ... for this. ...” Harry felt as if Devil’s Snare was rooting Devil’s Snare to the spot. Devil’s Snare couldn’t move a muscle. Petrified, Devil’s Snare watched as Quirrell reached up and began to unwrap Devil’s Snare turban. What was going on? his turban fell away. Quirrell’s head looked strangely small without his turban. Then Devil’s Snare turned slowly on the spot. Harry would have screamed, but Harry couldn’t make a sound. Where there should have been a back to Quirrell’s head, there was a face, the most terrible face Harry had ever seen. face Harry was chalk white with glaring red eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake. “Harry Potter ...” face Harry whispered. Harry tried to take a step backward but Harry legs wouldn’t move. “See what I have become?” a face, the most terrible face Harry had ever seen said. “Mere shadow and vapor ... I have form only when I can share another’s body . . . but there have always been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds. ... Unicorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks . . . you saw Quirrell Quirrell drinking Quirrell for me in the forest ... and once I have the Elixir of Life, I will be able to create a body of my own. ... Now ... why don’t you give me that the Stone in your pocket?” So the Stone knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into Harry’s legs. the Stone stumbled backward. “Don’t be a fool,” snarled a face, the most terrible face Harry had ever seen. “Better save your own life and join me ... or you’ll meet the same end as your parents. ... your parents died begging me for mercy. ...” “LIAR!” Harry shouted suddenly. Quirrell was walking backward at Harry, so that Voldemort could still see Harry. The evil face was now smiling. “How touching ...” The evil face hissed. “I always value bravery. ... Yes, boy, your parents were brave. ... I killed your father first, and your father put up a courageous fight . . . but your mother needn’t have died ... your mother was trying to protect you. ... Now give me the Stone, unless you want your mother to have died in vain.” “NEVER!” Harry sprang toward the flame door, but Lord Voldemort screamed “SEIZE HIM!” and the next second, Harryfelt Quirrell’s hand close on Harry wrist. At once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry’s scar; Harry head felt as though it was about to split in two; Harry yelled, struggling with all Harry might, and to Harry surprise, Quirrell let go of Harry. The pain in Harry head lessened — Harry looked around wildly to see where Quirrell had gone, and saw Harry hunched in pain, looking at Harry fingers — they were blistering before Harry eyes. “Seize Harry! SEIZE Harry!” shrieked Lord Voldemort again, and Quirrell lunged, knocking Harry clean off his feet, landing on top of Harry, both hands around Harry’s neck — Harry’s scar was almost blinding Harry with pain, yet Harry could see Quirrell howling in agony. ““Master, I cannot hold Harry — my hands — my hands!” And Quirrell, though pinning Harry to the ground with Harry knees, let go of Harry neck and stared, bewildered, at Harry own palms Harry Harry could see Harry looked burned, raw, red, and shiny. “Then kill Harry, fool, and be done!” screeched Lord Voldemort. Quirrell raised Quirrell hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry, by instinct, reached up and grabbed Quirrell’s face — “AAAARGH!” Quirrell rolled off Quirrell, Quirrell face blistering, too, and then Harry knew: Quirrell couldn’t touch Harry bare skin, not without suffering terrible pain — his only chance was to keep hold of Quirrell, keep his in enough pain to stop his from doing a curse. Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm, and hung on as tight as Harry could. Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harry off — the pain in Harry’s head was building — Harry couldn’t see — Harry could only hear Harry’s terrible shrieks and Voldemort’s yells of, “KILL HIM! KILL HIM!” and other voices, maybe in Harry’s own head, crying, “Harry! Harry!” Harry felt Quirrell’s arm wrenched from Harry grasp, knew all was lost, and fell into blackness, down ... down ... down ... Something gold was glinting just above Harry. The Snitch! Harry tried to catch it, but Harry arms were too heavy. Harry blinked. It wasn’t The Snitch The Snitch at all. It was a pair of glasses. How strange. Harry blinked again. The smiling face of Albus Dumbledore swam into view above Albus Dumbledore swam. “Good afternoon, Harry,” said Dumbledore. Harry stared at Harry Potter. Then Harry remembered: “Sir! the Stone! It was Quirrell! Harry’s got the Stone! Sir, quick — “Calm yourself, Harry Potter, you are a little behind the times,” said Dumbledore. “Quirrell does not have the Stone.” “Then who does? Sir, I — ” Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out.” Harry swallowed and looked around Harry. Harry realized Harry must be in the hospital wing. Harry was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next to Harry was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop. “Tokens from your friends and admirers,” said Dumbledore, beaming. “What happened down in the dungeons between you and Quirrell is a complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. I believe your friends Misters Fred and George Weasley were responsible for trying to send you a toilet seat. No doubt your friends Misters Fred and George Weasley thought it would amuse you. Madam Pomfrey, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscated it.” “How long have I been in here?” “Three days. Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger will be most relieved you have come round, Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger have been extremely worried.” “But sir, the Stone — ” “I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, the Stone. Quirrell did not manage to take it from you. I arrived in time to prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say.” “You got there? You got Hermione’s owl?” “We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached London than it became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just left. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you — ” “It was you.” “I feared I might be too late.” “You nearly were, I couldn’t have kept Quirrell off the Stone much longer — ” “Not the Stone, boy, you — the effort involved nearly killed you. For one terrible moment there, I was afraid Not the Stone, boy had. As for the Stone, Not the Stone, boy has been destroyed.” “Destroyed?” said Harry blankly. “But your friend — Nicolas Flamel — ” “Oh, you know about Nicolas?” said Dumbledore, sounding quite delighted. “You did do the thing properly, didn’t you? Well, Nicolas and I have had a little chat, and agreed it’s all for the best.” “But that means Nicolas and Nicolas wife will die, won’t he and his wife?” “he and his wife have enough Elixir stored to set he and his wife affairs in order and then, yes, he and his wife will die.” Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on Harry’s face. “To one as young as you, I’m sure it seems incredible, but to Nicolas and Perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very, very long day. After all, to the well- organized mind, death is but the next great adventure. You know, the Stone the Stone was really not such a wonderful thing. As much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings would choose above all — the trouble is, humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that are worst for humans.” Harry lay there, lost for words. Dumbledore hummed a little and smiled at the ceiling. Sir?” said Harry. “I’ve been thinking ... Sir — even if Harry’s gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who — ” “Call Sir Voldemort, Harry. Always use the proper name for things. Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself.” “Yes, Sir. Well, Harry’s going to try other ways of coming back, isn’t Harry’s ? I mean, Harry’s hasn’t gone, has Harry’s ?” “No, Harry, Harry’s has not. Harry’s is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking for another body to share ... not being truly alive, Harry’s cannot be killed. Harry’s left Quirrell to die; Harry’s shows just as little mercy to Harry’s followers as Harry’s enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while you may only have delayed Harry return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losing battle next time — and if Harry is delayed again, and again, why, Harry may never return to power.” Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made Harry head hurt. Then Harry said, Sir, there are some other things I’d like to know, if you can tell me ... things I want to know the truth about. ...” “the truth.” Dumbledore sighed. “It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution. However, I shall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in which case I beg you forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie.” “Well ... Lord Voldemort said that Lord Voldemort only killed my mother because my mother tried to stop Lord Voldemort from killing me. But why would Lord Voldemort want to kill me in the first place?” Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time. “Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Not today. Not now. You will know, one day ... put it from your mind for now, Harry. When you are older . . . I know you hate to hear this . . . when you are ready, you will know.” And Harry knew it would be no good to argue. “But why couldn’t Quirrell touch me?” “my mother died to save you. If there is one thing Lord Voldemort cannot understand, it is love. Lord Voldemort didn’t realize that love as powerful as my mother ’s for you leaves that love as powerful as your mother’s for you own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign ... to have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, will give us some protection forever. It is in your very skin. Quirrell, full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing Quirrell soul with Lord Voldemort, could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to touch a person marked by something so good.” Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill, which gave Harry time to dry Harry eyes on the sheet. When Harry had found Harry voice again, Harry said, “And the Invisibility Cloak — do you know who sent his voice to me?” “Ah — your father happened to leave his voice in my possession, and I thought you might like his voice.” Dumbledore’s eyes twinkled. “Useful things ... Dumbledore used his voice mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food when Dumbledore was here.” “And there’s something else ...” “Fire away.” n’t Quirrell said Snape — ” “Professor Snape .” “Yes, Quirrell said Quirrell hates me because Quirrell hated Dumbledore. Is that true?” “Well, Professor Snape did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourself and Mr. Malfoy. And then, Dumbledore did something Snape could never forgive.” “What?” “Snape saved Snape life.” “What?” “Yes ...” said Dumbledore dreamily. “Funny, the way peopleHarry’s minds work, isn’t it? Professor Snape couldn’t bear being in DumbledoreHarry’s debt. ... I do believe Professor Snape worked so hard to protect you this year because Professor Snape felt that would make Professor Snape and your father even. Then Professor Snape could go back to hating Dumbledore’s memory in peace. ...” Harry tried to understand this but this made Harry head pound, so Harry stopped. “And Sir, there’s one more thing ...” “Just the one?” “How did I get the Stone the Stone out of the mirror?” “Ah, now, I’m glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me, thatHarry’s saying something. You see, only one who wanted to find the Stone — find it, but not use it — would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see they making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes. ... Now, enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come across a vomit-flavored one, and since then I’m afraid I’ve rather lost my liking for them — but I think I’ll be safe with a nice toffee, don’t you?” Bertie Bott’s smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into the golden-brown beanmouth. Then Bertie Bott’s choked and said, “Alas! Ear wax!” Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but very strict. “Just five minutes,” Harry pleaded. “Absolutely not.” “You let Dumbledore Dumbledore in. ...” “Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need rest.” “I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Madam Pomfrey ...” “Oh, very well,” Madam Pomfrey said. “But five minutes only.” And Madam Pomfrey let Ron and Hermione in. “Harryl” Hermione looked ready to fling Madam Pomfrey arms around Harryl” again, but Harry was glad Madam Pomfrey held Madam Pomfrey in as Harry head was still very sore. “Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to — Dumbledore was so worried — ” “The whole school’s talking about The whole school’s,” said Ron. “What really happened?” It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry told them everything: Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Lord Voldemort. Ron and Hermionewere a very good audience; Ron and Hermione gasped in all the right places, and when Harry told Ron and Hermione what was under Quirrell’s turban, Hermione screamed out loud. “So Harry’s gone?” said Ron finally. “Harry’s just going to die?” “That’s what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that — what was it? — ‘to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.’ ” “I always said Dumbledore was off Dumbledore rocker,” said Ron and Hermionelooking quite impressed at how crazy Dumbledore hero was. “So what happened to Ron and Hermione two?” said Harry. “Well, I got back all right,” said Hermione. “I brought Ron round — that took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact Dumbledore when we met Dumbledore in the entrance hall — Dumbledore already knew — Dumbledore just said, ‘Harry’s gone after Harry, hasn’t Harry?’ and hurtled off to the third floor.” “D’you think “D’you meant you to do “D’you?” said Ron. “Sending you your fathers cloak and everything?” “Well,” Hermione exploded, “if “D’you did — I mean to say — that’s terrible — you could have been killed.” “No, it isn’t,” said Harry thoughtfully. ““D’you’s a funny man, Dumbledore. I think “D’you sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think “D’you knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon “D’you had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping we, “D’you just taught we enough to help. I don’t think it was an accident “D’you let me find out how the mirror worked. the mirror’s almost like “D’you thought I had the right to face Lord Voldemort if I could. ...” “Yeah, Dumbledore’s off Dumbledore rocker, all right,” said Ron. “Listen, you’ve got to be up for the end- of-year feast tomorrow. The points are all in and Slytherin won, of course — you missed the last Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good.” At that moment, Madam Pomfrey bustled over. “You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT,” Madam Pomfrey said firmly. •k k k After a good night’s sleep, Harry felt nearly back to normal. “I want to go to the end- of-year feast,” Harry told Madam Pomfrey as Madam Pomfrey straightened Harry many candy boxes. “I can, can’t I?” “Dumbledore Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go,” Madam Pomfrey said sniffily, as though in Madam Pomfrey opinion Dumbledore Dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts could be. “And you have another visitor.” “Oh, good,” said Harry. “Who is it?” Hagrid sidled through the door as Dumbledore spoke. As usual when Dumbledore was indoors, Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. Dumbledore sat down next to Harry, took one look at Dumbledore, and burst into tears. “It’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” Dumbledore sobbed, Dumbledore face in Dumbledore hands. “I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told Dumbledore! It was the only thing Dumbledore didn’t know, an’ I told Dumbledore! Yeh could’ve died! All fer a dragon egg! I’ll never drink again! I should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!” Hagrid!” said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and remorse, great tears leaking down into Yeh beard. “Hagrid, he’d have found out somehow, this is Lord Voldemort we’re talking about, Yeh’d have found out even if you hadn’t told Yeh.” “Yeh could’ve died!” sobbed Hagrid. “An’ don’ say the name!” “VOLDEMORT!” Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked, Harry stopped crying. “I’ve met Harry and I’m calling Harry by Harry name. Please cheer up, Hagrid, we saved the Stone, itHarry’s gone, Harry can’t use it. Have a Chocolate Frog, I’ve got loads. ...” Hagrid wiped Hagrid nose on the back of Hagrid hand and said, “That reminds me. I’ve got Yeh a present.” “It’s not a stoat sandwich, is It?” said Harryanxiously, and at Hagrid Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. “Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix yesterday ter . ’Course, Dumbledore shoulda sacked me instead — anyway, got y eh this ...” this seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry opened this curiously. this was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at Harry from every page were Harry mother and father. “Sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends, askin’ fer photos ... knew yeh didn’ have any ... d’yeh like it?” Harry couldn’t speak, but Hagrid understood. Harry made Harry way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. Harry had been held up by Madam Pomfrey’s fussing about, insisting on giving Harry one last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. the Great Hall was decked out in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Madam Pomfrey’s winning the House Cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner showing the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the High Table. When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody started talking loudly at once. Harry slipped into a seat between Ron and Hermione at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were standing up to look at Harry. Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The babble died away. “Another year gone!” Dumbledore said cheerfully. “And I must trouble you with an old manHarry’s wheezing waffle before we sink we teeth into we delicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a little fuller than your heads were . . . you have the whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty before next year starts. ... “Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs awarding, and the points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred and seventy- two.” A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table. Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging Harry goblet on the Slytherin table. It was a sickening sight. “Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Dumbledore. “However, recent events must be taken into account.” The room went very still. The Slytherins’ smiles faded a little. “Ahem,” said Dumbledore. “I have a few last-minute points to dish out. Let me see. Yes ... “First — to Mr. Ronald Weasley ...” Ron went purple in the face; Ron looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. "... for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I award Gryffindor House fifty points.” Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; the stars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be heard telling the other prefects, “My brother, you know! My brother! Got past McGonagall’s giant chess set!” At last there was silence again. “Second — to Miss Hermione Granger . . . for the use of cool logic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor House fifty points.” Hermione buried Hermione face in Hermione arms; Harry strongly suspected Hermione had burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table were beside Gryffindors up and down the table — Gryffindors up and down the table were a hundred points up. “Third — to Mr. Harry Potter ...” said Dumbledore. The room went deadly quiet. "... for pure nerve and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor House sixty points.” The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly the same as Slytherin. Those who could add up while yelling themselves had tied for the House Cup — if only Dumbledore had given Harry just one more point. Dumbledore raised Dumbledore hand. The room gradually fell silent. “There are all kinds of courage,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville Longbottom.” Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted from the Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up to yell and cheer as Neville, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people hugging Neville. Neville had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before. Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy, who couldn’t have looked more stunned and horrified if Harry Potter’d just had the Body-Bind Curse put on Harry Potter. “Which means,” Dumbledore called over the storm of applause, for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we need a little change of decoration.” He clapped He . In an instant, the green hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold; the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering Gryffindor lion took the huge Slytherin serpent place. Snape was shaking Professor McGonagall’s hand, with a horrible, forced smile. Snape caught Harry’s eye and Harry knew at once that Snape ’s feelings toward Snape hadn’t changed one jot. This didn’t worry Harry. This seemed as though life would be back to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts. It was the best evening of Harry’s life, better than winning at Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls ... Harry would never, ever forget tonight. Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but come the exam results were still to come did. To the exam results were still to come great surprise, both Harry and Ron passed with good marks; Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first years. Even Neville scraped through, Even Neville good Herbology mark making up for Even Neville abysmal Potions one. both he and Ron had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupid as Even Neville was mean, might be thrown out, but Even Neville had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Ron said, you couldn’t have everything in life. And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed, Neville’s toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were handed out to all students, warning all students not to use magic over the holidays (“I always hope all students’ll forget to give us these,” said Fred Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across the lake; them were boarding the Hogwarts Express; talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier; eating Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans as them sped past Muggle towns; pulling off them wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats; pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at King’s Cross station. It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting A wizened old guard go through the gate in twos and threes so A wizened old guard didn’t attract attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles. “You must come and stay this summer,” said Ron, “both of you — I’ll send you an owl.” “Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look forward to.” People jostled People as People moved forward toward the gateway back to the Muggle world. Some of People called: “Bye, Harry!” “See you, Harry Potter!” “Still famous,” said Ron, grinning at Ron. “Not where I’m going, I promise you,” said Harry. He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway together. “There He, Ron, and Hermione is, Mom, there He, Ron, and Hermione is, look!” It was Ginny Weasley, Ron’s younger sister, but she wasn’t pointing at Ron. “Harry Potter!” she squealed. “Look, Mom! I can see “Be quiet, Ginny, and it’s rude to point.” Fred Weasley smiled down at them. “Busy year?” she said. “Very,” said Harry. “Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs. Weasley.” “Oh, it was nothing, dear.” “Ready, are you?” It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still mustached, still looking furious at the nerve of Harry, carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of ordinary people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley, looking terrified at the very sight of Harry. “You must be Harry’s family!” said Fred Weasley. “In a manner of speaking,” said Uncle Vernon. “Hurry up, boy, we haven’t got all day.” him walked away. Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and Hermione. “See you over the summer, then.” “Hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said Hermione, looking uncertainly after Uncle Vernon, shocked that anyone could be so unpleasant. “Oh, I will,” said Harry, and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over Harry face. “ they don’t know we’re not allowed to use magic at home. I’m going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer...” 